This is the best technology that can
scan inside of the Great Pyramid that
are undiscovered features.
>> Do any of these structures that they're
interpreting fly in the face of what
conventional archaeology would think
exists inside the pyramid?
>> All of it.
>> There is also electricity inside this
>> fossilized lightning through these iron
veins. What is creating the lack of
signature here?
>> There is something I can't disclose it
now.
>> I understand.
>> Each pyramid is producing a specific
chemical and the sequence of these
chemicals transforms one product into
the next product into the next product.
Industrial scale chemical manufacturing.
If we do have tubular structures,
pillars with coils wrapping around them
that go a kilometer deep with a
foundation underneath them,
>> that's insane. That's huge.
>> Correct. Yeah. And it's it's something
that needs to be addressed
because there's no physical way that
these could possibly have been built.
Period.
>> Then I'm going with aliens, right? Like
how do how do we explain that? For over
4,000 years, the pyramids of Egypt have
stood as some of the most extraordinary
structures ever built by human hands.
The Great Pyramid of Kufu on the Giza
Plateau, contains roughly 2.3 million
stone blocks, some weighing as much as
70 tons, arranged with a precision that
still astonishes engineers today.
The first and most obvious question
everyone asks is how these insanely
large, sophisticated, and astronomically
aligned structures were built in ancient
times before modern civil engineering.
Archaeologists and historians have
proposed several main theories.
French architect Jean Pierre Houdan
suggests that an internal ramp spiraling
within the pyramid structure itself
carried the blocks. This is an idea that
gained renewed interest after the scan
pyramids project detected unexplained
voids inside the great pyramid. Other
proposals involve lever systems,
counterweights, and complex lifting
techniques hinted at by ancient
historians like Herododus. And then of
course you have the Atlantean acoustic
levitation crowd. Always a good time and
I can't hate on them. But the point is
all of these theories have serious
issues with them and are incredibly
speculative. And there's another even
more simple question we take for granted
and one that's probably even more
interesting when it comes to the
pyramids. Why were they built in the
first place? The most widely accepted
explanation is the royal tomb theory.
Most Egyptologists believe the Great
Pyramid was built for the Pharaoh Kufu
around 2500 BC as part of a massiveerary
complex designed to help the king ascend
to the afterlife. And the pyramid of
Kafra was of course built for the tomb
of Pharaoh Kafra, Kufu's son. But no
confirmed mummies or tombs of Kufu or
Kafra have ever been found inside of the
pyramids.
And the interior chambers themselves are
surprisingly bare. And so in the last
few decades, some very alternative ideas
have emerged for what the pyramid's true
purpose may have been.
One of the most famous of these comes
from former aerospace engineer and Joe
Rogan guest Christopher Dunn. Dunn
proposed that the Great Pyramid might
have functioned as an ancient energy
machine. In his view, the pyramid's
internal chambers, granite structures,
and resonant geometry may have all
worked together to generate power,
possibly through vibrations interacting
with quartz crystals inside the stone.
Researcher Jeffrey Drum, who runs the
amazing Land of Chem YouTube channel,
believes the pyramids weren't producing
electricity at all. They were harnessing
atmospheric electricity and producing
hydrogen gas and ammonium based
compounds essential for metal working
and agriculture, something ancient
civilizations needed. And my hypothesis
for the function of the great pyramid is
that the hydrogen sulfide gas coming
from this subterranean karst cave and
tunnel system is the initial reactant in
the chemical manufacturing sequence
within the great pyramid.
>> According to drum, different chambers
inside the pyramid could have served as
reaction vessels where chemicals like
zinc and acid interacted generating
hydrogen through controlled reactions.
These fascinating open questions, how
and why the pyramids got built, became
infinitely weirder in 2022. That's when
a small team of researchers led by
Italian radar specialist Filipo Biandi
and his engineering colleague Curado
Malonga made one of the boldest claims
in the last century involving ancient
archaeology. Using a technique called
synthetic aperture radar Doppler
tomography applied to satellite data,
they claimed to have detected eight
enormous cylindrical tubular structures
going beneath the Giza plateau, possibly
including large vertical shafts and
chamberlike formations extending
hundreds of meters below the pyramids
themselves. We are counting at the
moment 4 + 4 cubes that are descending
underneath and they are connecting the
top so the base of the pyramid to
something that is located at the bottom.
So tonight on American Alchemy, we are
hosting a historic roundt discussion
between Jeffrey and none other than
Filipo Beyond himself, the man who
conducted the scans and created the
method that derived the images of these
large columns below the pyramids. The
result was probably the deepest
conversation that's ever been had on the
structure and purpose of the pyramids
and the vast complex of subterranean
structures that might lie beneath them.
Modern disclosure might not involve
modern technology, but rather ancient
technology hidden in plain sight.
Without further ado, probably the two
best guests I could think of to explore
the birthplace of alchemy itself,
ancient Egypt. Please welcome this
week's American Alchemists, Jeffrey Drum
and Filippo Beyond.
>> Ignition sequence start.
>> Now, is this possible?
Nothing too unusual about that.
>> Existence can no longer be denied.
>> When we first started selling
merchandise at americanalchemymerch.com,
we had no idea how complicated and
annoying selling merch could be. We
talked to a dozen different platforms
and companies comparing shipping tools,
payment options, website builders, and
it all felt like way more of a headache
and complicated than it should be. We
decided on Shopify, and within days, our
store was up. Everything was running
cleanly in an automated way, so we could
just focus on the brand and the vision
we had for it. That's when it hit us.
Ideas don't scale on inspiration alone.
They need a structure, a container.
Shopify provides that structure. It
quietly powers millions of creators and
brands, about 10% of all United States
e-commerce. From big names like Gym
Shark and Mattel to solo creators
building from their bedrooms, Shopify
made it simple to build a store that
actually feels authentic to us, which
matters when your brand lives in a niche
like alternative tech, UFOs, or fringe
science, and when you have a very clear
brand vision. Plus, their AI tools help
write descriptions, organize products,
even clean up photos so we can focus on
what matters and what we care about.
Building the best custom merch line
possible with the coolest designs like
our UFO cowboy tea and the Atomic Age T.
Plus, Shopify handles all of the
unglamorous, more painful stuff.
Shipping, returns, email marketing, all
in one clean dashboard. It's like having
a silent partner who never sleeps. Our
favorite part of the product is the
dashboard, which gives us complete
demographic information. We can see
where our orders come from, making it
easy to know who our most loyal,
consistent customers are around the
world. That's just one example, but
Shopify really makes your life easier.
Bring your next idea to life with
Shopify quietly handling everything
behind it. Sign up for your $1 per month
trial and start today at
shopify.com/jesse.
Again, that's shopify.com/jessej
s for a $1 a month trial. It's just $1 a
month to try Shopify, the
state-of-the-art solution in e-commerce.
I'm here with Filippo Beyond, round two
with him, and I have brought in an
amazing co-inter, Jeffrey Drum, who I've
become a recent big fan of.
>> Thank you, sir.
>> And I I just can't wait enough for this
conversation. And I'm really excited to
dive into this because Filippo, as we
all know at this point, has through
synthetic aperture radar Doppler
tomography, he's a he's a scientist,
he's a data scientist, 30 years uh PhD,
who with his own method, the Beyond
Method, has basically figured out
through these tomography scans, he's
derived what he says looks like these
eight four plus four tubular structures
with coils wrapping around them
underneath uh the pyramids, not only
actually underneath uh the pyramids,
under underneath some other structures
as well. So, uh it's kind of a bombshell
finding obviously it uh uh is also a
really uh amazing meme that like took
off on the internet. And um Jeffrey uh
more recently I've become a huge fan of
just because he's so rigorous and I I
don't know too many people who have a
stepbystep thesis as to what the
pyramids actually their function is. You
know I it really it's you're kind of in
a league of your own. Um and so uh you
know
>> I appreciate that. That's that's a huge
uh vote of confidence.
>> No, I mean it I mean it's you and
Christopher D. And so
>> Sure. I'm excited to have you here
because I think you can ask Filippo
questions that I cannot. Yes. I think I
probably accept a lot of things at face
value. And so I'm really excited to host
this discussion.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh thank you both for being here.
>> Thank you. Thank you very much for your
invitation.
>> So as far as kicking things off, why
don't we just go over the core findings
just for the audience's kind of context.
So what are we talking about here when
it comes to these synthetic aperture
radar Doppler tomography scans and and
if you could go into the method as
specifically as possible that would be
very helpful. Yes, the the the method is
relatively new and not so um let's say
uh um diffused by the other colleagues
uh m colleagues of mine but uh someone I
am uh I know that is replicating the
experiment so I am very happy about this
uh essentially uh I work I worked a lot
of years maybe I I maybe 30 years on on
radar and 20 years on radars um
installed on satellites.
Um
synthetic aperture radar is an an
equipment that uh synthetizes
synthetic so synthetizes a so-called
integration time along the orbit in
order to have aimote resolution uh high
very high aim resolution. So it is very
important for civilian application and
other applications.
Uh today is a state-of-the-art because
uh uh it require
companies that uh American companies and
also European companies that are uh
building their own satellites. they
launch launch the satellites in the in
the sky in the space I'm sorry and uh
they they sell data so it is it is very
simple to find the synthetic virtual
radar data and what we do is uh we re uh
reprocess this data in order to um uh
and this is the core of our method in
order to retrive the um the superficial
vibration of the
this superficial v vibration we have to
consider it we have to consider this
vibration like uh the the the waves that
we can observe on on the border of the
swimming pool. So those kind of waves
contains all the information that uh it
is uh that that it is uh given by the
underground the underneath the
underground. So we do uh like that we
estimate the vibration and then we we we
do uh we make we perform algorithms that
uh are able to retract tomography.
Tommography is Thomas is uh we look
inside
>> it's slicing of the interior
>> when we use acoustics because acoustics
uh in the in the acoustics are uh very
important because they propagate
propagate only matter
>> y
>> and we use as a carrier the light
>> because in this space we don't have
matter we we have but we don't have
matter and uh we use the the light it
means the radio frequency in the 10 GHz
in the in the 10 GHz central frequency
so light to carry the information of the
vibrations
>> right
>> so basically you have synthetic aperture
radar which is a triedand- trueue method
nobody's arguing with you know synthetic
aperture radar being effective you have
companies like Ice ISI um you know Umbra
Capella Space that work off this method.
They use it for defense and commercial
purposes. It's basically a higher
resolution radar. And then I think the
big update here is the Doppler
tomography. And then the other update is
you're getting these tomography scans
and you have software that is
proprietary to you, right Philipp?
Because we have uh we have a patent that
this uh this now I I am also submitting
a second patent.
>> Mhm. on the first patent because I made
some uh improvements of the technique
and uh so I'm in these days we are
submitting in United States. So the two
big updates are the Doppler tomography
and then you get the tomography scans
and it's your interpretation of the
tomography scans which is kind of this
unique thing
>> to you and so that has the the world you
know up in in flames the archaeological
world where you have you know people
like Flint Dibble coming at you and
saying you know
>> guy
yeah
>> Jeffrey really um struck me as somebody
who you was asking I think one step
level deeper questions than I could ask
about this. And so I kind of want to you
know just maybe defer defer to you here
as far as uh you know what what you
think about these claims because on the
face of them you know if we do have
tubular structures pillars with coils
wrapping around them that go a kilometer
deep with a foundation underneath them
>> that's insane. That's huge.
>> Correct. Yeah. And it's it's something
that needs to be addressed. So to
preface sort of my perspective on the
new SR scans, my work focuses on a
comprehensive overview of the function
of the Egyptian pyramids from the step
pyramid, red pyramid, bent pyramid,
great pyramid, central pyramid, final
pyramid and also encompasses ancient
structures like stone circles, passage
chamber reactors, teot wakan, Japanese
pyramids, etc. And it's a comprehensive
overview of the function of these
structures with a basis on mechanisms of
operation related to physics and
chemistry with the function of the
Egyptian pyramids being for industrial
scale chemical manufacturing where each
pyramid is producing a specific chemical
and the sequence of these chemicals
transforms one product into the next
product into the next product. So from
my perspective in interpreting and
reverse engineering the function of the
Egyptian pyramids, we have a known
chamber configuration
which inherently any hypothesis on the
function of the Egyptian pyramids has to
specifically assess all of these
specific components in the known
configuration.
So if there are new components for
example a lot of people don't know that
Philippo and the S team actually
published their first paper back in 2020
when they scanned the great pyramid and
this paper did not get a lot of
attention at the time and I think a lot
of people haven't gone back to look at
your original research and I'll also do
my best to kind of summarize in layman's
terms how the beyond protocol works in
relation ation to the existing Satellite
radar technology because this is a
conjunction of existing satellite
technology with new software that's
known as the Beyond protocol that again
is interpreting micro vibrations which
you term as phonons as indicative of
internal chambers within the structure
and we'll walk through this process and
I think the impetus for this as you can
see here on the screen anybody who's
watching um the organizers ers of the
SAR team's first international
conference was in Malta back in June of
and the organizers of the conference
were familiar with my work. Armando and
Filippo were familiar with my work and
my wife and I as you can see there we
had a an absolutely spectacular time in
Malta. It is gorgeous there. Such a fun
conference. We got to meet everybody and
Filipo and I had a really engaging sort
of question and answer process going on
during this conference where that was
really why I was invited by the
organizers of the conference to come and
ask questions based on my knowledge of
the existing configuration and Filippo
you're the man when it comes to SAR
technology and you are the creator of
this Beyond protocol. So whether you
like it or not, you're the only person
that has the qualifications to answer
these questions.
>> Jeffrey, ask me the question.
>> Yes, an answer. We will
>> right.
>> I want to say one thing and then and
then I'll defer to you, Jeffrey. Um
because if I do think it's important
because a lot of people, you know, the
information space in podcast world is
not always the best and I think a lot of
people might uh Google or chat GBT
synthetic aperture radar and get a quick
a quick debunk like oh you can't
penetrate the earth with synthetic
aperture radar and I do think
>> yeah it is it is so I want so this is
really important that what you were
saying is that um There is a kind of uh
phonon to photon conversion and that uh
these micro vibrations just like you
might be able to read the substructure
underneath water through measuring the
waves translates to the electromagnetic
radio waves that you know get translated
to the satellite. Correct. Exactly. But
penetration is related only to the
information the entropy
>> which is the basic of basics of
information. I suggest everyone to read
the mother paper of information which is
the paper of Shannon and uh
>> Claude Shannon
>> and
>> he's the best a and uh also to to back
you up there are other modalities like
there's something called cold atom
sensing and you know gravitometry
>> which non-invasive above the surface and
you are measuring subsurface stuff you
aren't measure measuring it with perfect
accuracy so that's what's very important
and the reason I'm so excited excited to
have you here is because I think a lot
of the first order debunks like the one
I just mentioned suck and are easy their
ignorance as you said. I think and I
don't even want to call it a debunk
because it's a friendly conversation.
Yeah. But you have thought of other kind
of interesting ways to poke at uh you
know
>> it's just objective questions out of
fascination and interest for the work.
And I think that's an important thing in
science is when people with different
opinions come together,
>> it helps us get closer to the truth
>> because diversity builds new things.
>> Of course, and I will agree there are
absolutely things below the Giza plateau
that we do not understand that are the
impetus for the construction of the
pyramids on the Giza plateau. They chose
the Giza Plateau for a very specific
reason. There are very important
resources
below the Giza Plateau that are directly
related to the function of the Egyptian
pyramids. So, we'll kind of get to that
at the end, but let's let's dive into
this um so that everybody can just kind
of hear. I'm going to read briefly just
quoting the abstract of your first paper
>> just just to say I remember in the last
interview that uh I made with uh Jesse
when he came in Kchano where I live I
said I remember that I said
one thing in in the Giza uh business
let's say business there is a crucial
material that is common in in every
everything so it's water
>> yes
>> water Uh I think that water is very
important.
>> I agree.
>> Yes. In this business.
>> Yeah.
>> And for example, um we've actually taken
samples of the water in the Osiris shaft
and I had that tested in conjunction
with an archaeological project that I'm
a member of called the Osiron 7
Archaeological Mission in conjunction
with Jim Westerman to investigate the
source of the water within the Osiron.
So they're doing testing of the water in
the Osiron and hydraological evaluation
of the Osiron to try to determine a why
and where the water in the reservoir
comes from. And there's also intrusive
water in one of the central recesses
that we're also trying to determine the
source of this water. I'm an official
member of that archaeological project
and I brought our water samples from the
Osiris shaft to have tested in
conjunction with the samples from them.
And the Osiris shaft is brackish water.
It's not fresh water and it's not
seawater. It's brackish water. So
brackish water is slightly salty water.
Not fresh water, not seawater.
>> In Italian is called the Salmastra.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So partially salt water.
>> So there's a very independent aquifer
located directly below the Osiris shaft
that is not connected to the Nile River.
So for example, the Nile is way way back
from the Giza plateau and because of the
high Azwan Dam, there's no more flooding
of the Nile River. So the water level
inside of the Osiris shaft has not
fluctuated since the time of its
construction.
So there's an independent aquifer
located directly below the Osiris shaft.
And that system was designed to tap into
that aquifer at a very specific level at
the bottom of the chamber, which is why
the chamber is still filled with water
at the bottom of the Osiris shaft today.
So there's pockets of independent
aquifers all over the Giza plateau. And
there's also subterranean flowing water
which
>> ah so there there is also sub
subterranean
>> moving water. Yeah. Yeah. So there's
actually pumps,
>> okay,
>> that have been installed near the valley
temple.
So the Kafra Valley Temple near the
Sphinx enclosure, um the Egyptian
government has installed pumps to try
and pump this water out from below the
Giza Plateau.
>> So there's pumping stations at Giza
where they've been pumping out this
water from below the Giza Plateau,
>> which is there's a reason they're doing
that.
Back in the day, I used to chug coffee
like I was prepping for a quantum jump.
But then I'd crash like my nervous
system got slingshotted through a
kaleidoscope. Anxiety spiking, aura
flickering, and REM sleep never met her.
It was like drinking battery acid on an
empty stomach. Then I found Mudwater. It
doesn't fry my circuits or my synapses.
I use Mudwater's original blend over
ice. It still has a little bit of
caffeine, but it's stacked with
adaptogens and neutropics like
eltheanine, chaga, lion's mane, cacao,
the whole earth squad to keep you
naturally energized and to ensure that
you don't wake up with the morning
scaries. One sip of mud water and my
cells report for duty. Two sips and
boom, I'm plugged into the fungal
starfleet. All systems go. So, are you
ready to make the switch to cleaner
energy? Head to mudwater.com.
That's mudwuttr.com
and grab your starter kit today. That's
mudwt.com.
Right now, our listeners get an
exclusive deal up to 43% off your entire
order, plus free shipping and a free
rechargeable frother when you use code
Jesse at checkout. That's right, up to
43% off with code Jesse. That's J E S E
at Mudwater. mud wtr.com.
After your purchase, they'll ask you how
you found them. Please show your support
and let them know we sent you.
>> It's it's from a sense of archaeological
preservation, of course, which is the
main justification for everything done
in Egypt. We're trying to preserve the
monuments. So, we want to remove all the
water.
>> So, they are they they they
installed pumps to remove water.
>> Yeah. because they already know that
that there are structures inside.
>> Not necessarily that they know that
there's structures, but it's more for
the preservation of the pyramids on top
>> to prevent more erosion from below
>> because there is and I I'll get to this
at the end of the conversation. They
know for sure that there are caves and
tunnels below Giza.
>> There are a lot of caves. a lot of caves
and which are natural geological
features
>> and then we will speak about this.
>> Yeah, of course. Yeah. And we we agree
on that, right? Um it's
>> so we all agree on that. We all agree
that the pyramids were likely not
conventional tombs. Right.
>> Right. So like we're all like same page
there and then it see it sounds like
we're on the same page that water is
this important thing whether it's
chemical power plant or you know energy
power plant but yeah what do you think
>> and they we are sure also that they were
not built by the Egyptian
>> that would be my bias what do you think
>> what do you think
>> so by built by the Egyptians
>> I think they were built by the
civilization that lived in Egypt
>> during a period known as the Saharan
humid period which is from 8,500 BC to
around 5,300 BC
>> which well predates what Zahi gaw like
the Ministry of Culture would say
>> and and during that time period the
upper eastern Sahara was being
transformed from a desert into a vast
area of farmland by sweeping monsoon
rains. So there was tons of rain, there
was tons of water, there were tons of
thunderstorms, which is also directly
connected to my hypothesis on the
function of the pyramid structures,
directly connected to thunderstorms and
lightning,
>> which we'll get to the power source of
the pyramids and why these subterranean
structures might be important for
capturing and recirculating that
electrical current. And you have you
have what seems to be water damage and
erosion on the nose of the sphinx that
people like John Anthony West talk
about.
>> Yeah. The back of the sphinx enclosure.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. The water the water erosion at the
back of the sphinx enclosure. Yeah.
That's that's the work of Robert Shock
that looks at those vertical fissures on
the back of the Sphinx enclosure which
is indicative that the structure was
built during a time period where there
was significantly more rainfall. Right.
So I think it was built by the Egyptians
by virtue of it being the people that
were in Egypt. Yeah. Sure. At the time,
which predates So I do think it was So
I'm not in the alien camp where I think
that these are extraterrestrial. I think
they were built by human beings
>> at the end of the last ice age
>> in order to reestablish and rebuild
humanity after the largest cataclysm
that basically destroyed most of the
planet and put human beings at risk for
extinction. So they're infrastructure
projects.
>> You mentioned Robert Shock, you know, he
and Graeme Hancock would say that the
Sphinx itself is actually an homage to,
you know, the former procession. Sure.
and that you know the the the the
constellation Leo which was you know
facing true north was what it was you
know pointing towards and and that the
feronic you know headdress is actually
sort of retrofitted yes onto it. Would
you agree with that or
>> so I think the Sphinx itself is a
dynastic monument that was built on an
existing bedrock outcrop within the
Sphinx enclosure.
>> Okay. So similar to
>> Correct. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So
>> I don't I don't think the Sphinx
monument as a statue is contemporary to
the pyramids themselves.
>> Yeah.
>> Two two separate time periods.
>> Got it. Yeah. No. No. So So it sounds
like we're all on the same page that the
conventional archaeological explanation
for what's going on is kind of
primmaacia wrong and that the goalposts
are clearly moving on that. Let's say
that we are sure that when I open the uh
history book, school book of my son and
I go to the pyramid and I read uh two
uh 2500 BC is uh is not true.
>> Yes, exactly. So, so let's get into it
because I have some technical questions.
So, the title of their first paper
>> again when I read this at first I was
like what the hell is going on here?
Synthetic aperture radar Doppler
tomography detects undiscovered
highresolution internal structures of
the Great Pyramid of Giza. So this was
their first public scan of the Great
Pyramid before they scanned the Kafra
pyramid, the the central pyramid. And
I'm going to quote briefly from the
abstract here and then I'll do my best
to, you know, from a layman's
interpretation
provide an explanation for exactly
what's happening here for for people who
don't understand the technical stuff. So
one problem with synthetic aperture
radar is that given the limited
penetrating effects of the
electromagnetic waves inside
>> it one of the problem.
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> So who says that I'm sorry if I
>> It's okay. Go ahead. Yeah. Please.
>> Who says who or who says that? No, it's
impossible because rather can't
penetrate.
This is the main issue.
>> Correct. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm
just I'm just
>> they're going to dealing with the main
issue
>> and and and in the paper this is in the
abstract they're they're proposing one
of the main problems
>> and then the resolution to the problem
is the implementation of your new
software system.
>> So again let me just so so people can
understand what's going on. So one
problem with S radar is that given the
limited penetrating effects of
electromagnic magnet waves inside of
solids the capability to in image inside
distributed targets is excluded. So
under these circumstances imaging
activity is only given on the surface of
distributed targets.
>> Absolutely. This paper describes an
imaging approach based on the
investigation of micromovements on the
surface of the kum kufu pyramid the
great pyramid usually generated by
background seismic waves. So essentially
what the technology and the beyond
protocol is again Filippo please correct
me if I'm wrong and then agree if I have
this interpretation correct. So we have
existing synthetic aperture radar
satellite technology
>> and what you've done is developed a new
software
>> that works in conjunction with these
existing satellites to detect micro
movements.
>> Yes.
>> On the surface of the structure which
you have termed as phonons.
>> Yes. And those phonons and the
differences between the structure and
the cavities are indications of chambers
and hidden structures inside of the
pyramid.
>> Everything is encoded on these micro
movements because correct
>> if you have a chamber the micro
movements are like that. If you don't
have the chamber the micro move
movements are different.
>> Correct.
>> Present on the surface.
>> Right. Yeah. Yeah. So again, this is the
the whole revolutionary and novel
approach of the Beyond Protocol is it's
utilizing these surface micro vibrations
to tell us what's going on on the inside
of the structure. So again to clarify,
there's been some discussion in the
community that, you know, S technology
is old and it's vetted. It is 100%. And
S technology has been around for a long
time. But what Felippo has done is
developed a new approach to use these
exist existing satellites
>> existing data.
>> Correct. Yeah. To do something a little
different. Right. So we're now going to
be using these micro vibrations which
again they've called phonons
>> is the term utilized. So again, if
you're reading the paper, if you're
hearing a technical discussion, when you
talk about phonons, you're talking about
these micro vibrations that are being
detected by the radar.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> I please ask you to go uh a bit up and
at the previous uh um slide, please.
>> On the abstract on the abstract.
>> So I have some Oh, this one here. Yeah.
Yeah. And there there is is written very
clear that kum kufu becomes transparent
like a crystal when observe it in the
micro movement domain.
>> Yes.
>> Is it written there?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Uh based on this novelity we have
completely reconstructed internal object
observing and measuring structure that
have never been discovered before.
>> Yep. The experimental result uh are
estimated estimated by processing series
of SAR images. So this is the SAR the
SAR give you an image existing image and
then we process those image by in that
case it was the 2020 uh second
generation Italian cosmos kind satellite
system. A week ago, we uh we we put in
orbit a third satellite of Cosmos Sky
second generation. So now Italy has
three satellites of Cosmos.
>> Y it's very good.
>> And I'll show all of the images from
this paper so people can see what you've
discovered inside of the Great Pyramid
and all of those diagrams.
>> Okay. So this is from the Malta
conference which fast forward a couple
years later we're in Malta and this just
gives some additional information for
the people watching so they can
understand when we say phonons they'll
understand that those are the micro
movements. Phons are micro movements.
Correct. When I when when we when we
deal with light
>> Yeah.
>> light is composed by photons.
>> Correct. Yeah.
>> The vibrations of this table
>> Yeah.
>> at any frequency is a vibration of the
matter and the vibration of the matter
is composed by phonons.
>> Yep.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> So in this slide here and this is where
I have some questions about the process
of the radar scan itself. So you have
>> I'm here I'm here to explain everything
about this.
>> Yeah, of course. So the satellite is
going around the earth.
>> Yes.
>> And the the flat earth people are going
to go nuts when I when I do this, right?
>> No. There is the Pacman theory,
>> right? So again,
>> the satellite goes
>> it goes around like this
>> goes
outside the Pacman theory and
>> it comes back around. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Magically, right? Easy.
>> So again, the satellite is going around
the Earth, right?
>> And you're making passes over the target
object. So the satellite's going around
like this. And you're imaging the Great
Pyramid, for example.
>> Yes.
>> What is the square footage?
>> The square footage
>> or the square meters, the the footprint
on the ground. This is the correct word.
>> Yeah. What is the size of the area?
>> Yes. of the target scan for the radar.
>> 5 km times 5 km. Okay.
>> So, so is this is that a standard
footprint
>> or can you adjust the size?
>> It depends on the so-called geometry.
>> Okay.
>> There is a low that uh uh uh that is uh
stand that belongs on radar.
>> Yeah.
>> The more the resolution, the less the
footprint. The more resolution, less
footprint, right? Yeah. Because the
smaller the footprint,
>> the more accurate dense information
inside the small. It's like a light when
you focus the light footprint on this
table.
>> Yes.
>> So if you focus the light, you have more
information inside the footprint. Okay.
>> So you also use the phrase tomographic
line.
>> Tomographic line. Yeah. which is a slice
>> a slice
>> of the internal
>> Yes. And you system
>> and you extract a vertical cortex.
>> Correct. Yeah. So to create these scans
the raw data
>> Yeah.
>> How many times
>> does the satellite go around and over
the target object? So it's only one scan
>> 15 seconds
>> of integration.
>> Okay. It is it is in uh in the signal
processing uh language a sufficient
statistic.
>> Okay.
>> Or have a tomographic analysis. You can
use also series of interferometric data.
>> Yep.
>> I have to explain what is an
interferometric data. Uh it is you you
are observing this this this target
here. The satellite passes you you you
you catch a snapshot of this target.
>> Yes.
When the satellite goes another time on
this target, you will never see it in
the same geometry. It means same
incidence angle, same incidence angle
because the earth is moving while the
satellite is
>> sure
>> is is turning around the earth,
>> right? So you have to wait the so-called
orbital uh procession orbital uh I don't
remember the the name but orbital then
after I will I will remember it
>> that in cosmos kimed is 16 days.
>> Mhm.
>> You you have to wait 16 days in order to
observe the same target in the same
geometry. Yeah, that that was going to
be my next question is
>> and there you can collect 15 seconds 15
seconds 15 seconds 15 seconds three
months of observation persistently on
the target and you collect and you can
collect n times 15 seconds of
observation
>> but one image is a sufficient statistic
in order to retract tomography. Okay. So
that was actually my second question
>> was are these composits
>> of multiple passes
>> and then all of them are put together
for one image.
>> Why you are speaking about multiple
passages? We said that one image 15
seconds of integration y
>> in order to perform the synthesis uh the
synthesis of image is a sufficient
statistic.
>> Right? So with one 15 seconds you have
an image.
>> Okay.
>> Look.
>> And that's Yeah. So just to clarify
again, I'm just I'm just curious about
how the process works.
>> So the the data shown in the first paper
>> and in the scans of the Kufu pyramid
>> and the pillars below,
>> yes,
>> that's collected from a single scan. 15
seconds
>> with with a single synthetic a virtual
rather image.
>> Okay.
>> 15 seconds of integration.
>> Yeah. So we we'll talk about the scans
of the Osiris shaft as well.
>> Also that
>> and that's why you remember I went to
the Giza plateau to investigate the area
around the Osiris shaft.
>> Yes.
>> And this is when I was asking you about
the footprint.
>> Yeah.
>> The area of the scan.
>> Yeah. So when you scanned the Osiris
shaft, was the footprint of the area in
terms of meters by meters, length by
width, was that also 5 kilometers or did
you make the scan area smaller?
>> We use it only one uh available uh
product of synthetic visual data given
by cosmos which is called spotlight 2
the civilian application of cosmos
climate.
>> Okay. And that ensures 5 kilo 5
kilometers times 5 kilometers in that
resolution.
>> Okay.
>> And the resolution the space resolution
is submetric um nearly 1 m plus 1 m or 1
m* 1 m.
>> Okay. And I'll I'll show the scan data
from the Osiris shaft.
>> And the reason I'm asking about the
footprint.
>> Yeah.
>> Is because it's a two-dimensional image.
>> Yes.
>> Right.
>> Tommographic line times depth.
>> Correct. Okay.
>> So, you're taking a 5x5 kilometer scan
>> and compressing it.
>> No,
>> no,
>> no. You choose your the pixel that you
want to invert.
>> Okay.
>> You you can choose any pixel the image
maybe. You ch This is the image. This is
the image. Okay. You choose this pixel
and this other pixel. You you you draw a
line and you extract the vertical cord.
Okay? you you can go anywhere on the on
the image.
>> Okay.
>> Interesting.
>> And the reason I I'll get to it when we
look at the scan data.
>> Yes.
>> Because on the left side of the Osiris
shaft, it's picking up something else
there.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> I tell you this
>> and that's why I was interested. Yeah.
Cuz we're on the same Yeah. Of course.
Yeah.
>> Thank you for this question.
>> Of course. Before we get into that, can
can I just say one thing? We're we're
escaped. the the Osiris shaft is used
often as evidence by your team for at
least some validation. It's not blind
validation
>> because we know perfectly the
>> because you know the structure and you
use this same method to derive that
structure.
>> Indeed, I like to show the the Grand
Saso the Grand Saso laboratory because
uh it's very nice in my personal way.
>> Well, there you go. Also,
>> I have that too. So, we can show
everybody the proof of concept.
laborator you you see also the the
intererometer that is that is on the end
of the structure you see it
>> and I thought I thought those proof of
concepts so again it's it's proof of
concept
>> to establish the precedent and the
viability of the technology
>> to scan existing structures where we
have a known configuration and this
technology was very good at accurately
detecting the known structures within
these modern facilities that were
scanned,
>> but also the Osiris shaft, too. We'll
talk about that. I have a question. I
just have some questions.
>> I've learned some hardearned lessons in
life. For example, I've learned the hard
way that comfortable clothing usually
means comfortable for 15 minutes and
then spending the rest of the day subtly
irritated. The rough fabric, the
chafing, the lack of flexibility, it all
just sucks. That's why I've been wearing
Chubbies. Their everywhere pants are the
rare pants that actually move with you.
They've got real stretch. The elastic
waistband is genuinely comfortable and
they still look really put together.
I'll wear them on a recording day
running around doing a million things.
And I'm not thinking about my clothes at
all, which is kind of the point. Same
with their shorts and swim trunks that I
have right here. They're lightweight,
they're stretchy, they fit just right,
and you're not dealing with that old
scratchy mesh situation down there. You
put them on and you're done. For a
limited time, Chubbies is giving our
listeners 20% off with code Jesse at
chubbies.com.
That is 20% off your order with code
Jesse. Give your thighs the VIP
treatment they deserve with Chubbies.
Support our show. Use our code and tell
them we sent you. Thank you so much to
Chubbies for sponsoring today's episode.
>> I I imagine the question that you want
to ask me that we will arrive and but I
anticipate you that any measurement
technical measurement is affected by
errors. Right. Right. Of course. Yeah.
So
>> if you have something and aberration
>> because you are watching in a crystal
that it's made of
um stones.
No songs you can you can have aberration
on the results.
>> So background background noise
>> background noise is also aberration
interference opberation. Yeah.
>> Aberration is due by the not
uh uh constant density of the matter.
>> Sure. uh while you are dealing with um
uh vibrations, vibrations penetrates
inside matter but the matter uh
vibrations are um um traits matter
uh in uh with a speed that it depends on
the density of the m of the matter in
where they are traveling. Correct? If
the matter is not
uh uh has uh different densities uh so
you have aberration on the results.
>> Sure. Yeah. Yeah. So to to reinterpret
what he just said is the penetration and
the signature of vibrational analysis
depends on the density of the material.
>> Yes.
>> Because the more dense the material the
less vibrational signal
>> the velocity changes. Correct.
you have in interference.
>> Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Um
>> and re real quick just for the audience
because I want them to kind of visualize
and have context for this. Yeah.
>> Why don't you answer what is the Osiris
shaft?
>> So the Osiris shaft is a threelevel
structure located on the eastern
causeway leading from the central
pyramid down to the valley temple and
the Sphinx. And it's 33 meter
underground triplechamber system. Not
triple chamber, three different levels.
You have a shaft that goes down to the
primary level. You have another shaft
that goes down to the secondary level
where there's six housings that have
some containers of different material.
One's dite, one's black basalt. And then
you go down to the third level where
there is four pillars. This is the area
that's tapped into that subterranean
aquifer. It's literally calibrated to
just tap the surface of the water in
that underground aquifer. And there's
another chamber uh container down in the
third level.
>> And and what is the Grand Saso
laboratory?
>> Yes, the Grand Saso Laboratory is uh
located in one 1.4 kilometers
below the earth starting from the
aperture of the Grand Saso, the the top
of the of the mountain. And it it is
very huge very very big and uh uh it is
always in alive. It means that there are
ventilators there are facilities
electrical components inside. So it is
in alive.
>> What are they is this like um
>> it's a physics lab.
>> So it's like it's like it's like one of
the national labs in the US like Los
Alamos Lawrence.
>> What the what is the principal core of
the grand saso? It is called the Jerda
experiment because they are um they
didn't uh find it uh still find it the
so-called mayorana particle.
>> The mayorana particle is very uh
important because it demonstrates
that there are particles that are
antiparticles of their of their self.
Okay. And so in the grand sasso, the
grand sasso was made purposely to
demonstrate the mayorana, the existence
of the mayorana particle,
>> the existence of antiparticles
>> that is antiparticle of him. So particle
and antiparticle are the same thing and
so that's opens a lot of things.
>> So like cuz now in particle theory now
you have electrons and posetrons
>> but what what exactly are you saying? We
are dealing with sub nutrinos.
>> Ah well like like quirks and
>> yes neutrinos.
>> Oh you're literally nutrinos. Okay. So
nutrinos sub sub particle sub
>> subatomic yeah subatomic particles and
nutrinos for people that don't know uh
you know are very hard to detect.
They're very elusive. So and they seem
to penetrate through all
>> and so yes they they built the grandas
laboratory in order to have a stable
environment
>> very silent environment because there is
all the mountain that makes as a filter
>> it's an insulator for the detecting
equipment they built it inside of a
mountain.
>> Yes. And there there are there is a
specific detector that is that has been
built to in order to to to recognize
this my part.
>> Very cool. Okay.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and I'll show that in
just a second so people can see the scan
of the of the lab. Sweet.
>> Um so again I'm just going to introduce
>> we talked a little bit about the
abstract the development of the
technology and how it was implemented in
this first scan.
>> Yeah. So what we're looking at here is
one of the first
>> Yes, this was the first one. Yeah.
>> Yeah. The the raw data imag
the technique prove it is what
>> so Filippo you you kind of already know
my questions looking at it.
>> Yeah. because now you're you're 5 years
6 years removed from the first paper and
from what I understand the satellites
that you're using now are superior to
the ones that you were using during this
initial scan and now you're using
>> is superior also.
>> Yeah. And and now you're using multiple
satellites where this one was only
collected with a single satellite. Is
that correct?
>> Yes.
>> So what are we looking at here?
>> Yeah. So so basically here on the left
so let's start with on the right.
>> Yeah. On the right is the raw scan data
image.
>> On the left is an overlay of the
configuration of the great pyramid.
>> Yeah.
>> Overlaid on top of the tomographic
result.
>> Yes. I have to make a remark when you
speak about row data.
>> Yes.
>> These are dealing always with focus at
the data.
>> Yes. Because also in the vibrational
domain you have raw data and focus data.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So row data is the data that you
have before the so-called fast
transform. I tell you if you have a um a
camera a camera like that camera and you
uh make a picture with that camera
>> Mhm.
>> you see the image
>> correct?
>> Okay. If you um disassemble the camera
and you and you separate the optics by
the body of the camera, you can make a
photo also with using only the body of
the camera. The result is that you you
see a picture but you don't see the
picture focused because the focusing
procedure is
>> so like developing developing the image.
So a comparison to photography is like
old cameras where you have to develop
the photo. The photo is there but it
requires a process to focus the image
>> and in that case the process is made
naturally by the lens because the lens
performs fully a transform
>> okay what you are seeing.
>> So is this image on the right is this
not focused focused
>> it is focused. So it's the process.
Yeah. But the focus and when you use the
Beyond method with your software, are
you taking are you using an inversion of
the focused data or the raw?
Yeah, that's interesting.
>> Yeah. So this is the final product
>> of what you actually want to look for.
>> No, that's called final noisy product.
>> But you use but you use the unfocused
raw data. No, we don't have to uh we
don't have to confuse the SAR image. So
the optical image with what we are
retrieving on the vertical Cain also
when we retrive something uh when we
extract the tomographic line also there
you have data and you have to focus it
also.
>> Got it. But you you have to focus
everything. Any instrumental measurement
equipment that makes photo you have to
focus this photo
>> and you have to focus it before you use
your Beyond method or is it after?
>> So the Beyond method itself is what
receives these micro vibrations. Got it.
So then that that raw data that receives
those micro vibrations is processed to
create this focused image. So there's
nothing particularly unique or
proprietary about turning the focused
SAR data into an image. Is that correct?
>> Yes.
>> Very basic. His proprietary process is
just the the retrieval of the micro
movements that allow this imaging to be
possible. Okay. Right. Just to to remark
the fact the beyond the protocol is
composed by two steps. The first step
step is called synthesis and the second
step is called analysis.
>> Mhm.
>> In the synthesis we retrive the
vibrations
>> on the pixel composing the the the
tomographic line that we want to invert.
The second process is called analysis
the inversion which is an fast fully
adjust for the lens of the camera
>> because you see nothing.
>> So again this is a good preparation for
everything that you're going to face
coming up because now the work is going
to get even more popular
>> and you're going to have more people
asking questions like this that are
trying to better understand.
>> So moving forward so people can
understand what they're looking at with
the next set of focused images. Here on
the right we have the scale.
>> Yes.
>> So this is the concentration
or intensity of the vibrations
>> one normalizer.
>> Correct. Yeah. So you see everything in
blue is the normal body of the structure
or the background air etc. Right. So as
it goes up the scale we have more
intense vibrations that are being
registered by this satellite radar. Just
so everybody can understand the
coloring.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah. Correct. Yeah. It just shows the
intensity of the vibrations that are
detected. So looking back on it,
>> are you are you still confident and
proud of this data?
>> Absolutely.
>> Or would you rather go back and try to
clean it up more?
>> Yes, we can we can manage to clean it up
more. Absolutely. Yes. But these results
gives you a lot of information and but
we we didn't use only one result. We
have we had a plethora of results in
order to retrive the 3D that uh you will
show.
>> Yes. I have everything. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Uh I have to say something about my
technique that we have to when when you
extract a vertical cain it is normal
that
>> so you're saying vertical curtain
>> curtain. Yes.
>> Curtain. Yes.
>> Right. So like the sheet or the layer or
the slice the vertical curtain.
>> Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So just just in case
people didn't understand vertical
curtain means the slice that's being
extracted from this.
>> This is important that the vertical cain
is not perfect.
>> Maybe if a very bright target is located
here
you can see it. You have to move a lot
the vertical cain in order to don't see
it again because it's like a cone of
sensitivity because every antenna has a
cone of sensitivity.
>> Yes. So,
>> so if you are perfectly in the line of
sight, okay, you will see things that
are mainly uh located on the line of
sight.
>> Yes. But if you have bright targets that
are located also having a a certain
angular of of deviation and you can see
it.
>> Yeah. And we we'll talk about
>> that is what happened there. What is
what you will anticipate me in the
question of questions of the Osiris
shaft is true. You can see also things
that are located here.
>> Yes. Here.
>> Right. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. And we'll
talk about this cone of sensitivity.
Yes. When it comes to the muon scanning.
>> Hey, also there you have uh things
because also there they have to they
have raw data. Also there they have to
perform fast transa.
>> Yeah. So I'm I included some so we can
get your opinion and feedback because so
for people that don't know muon scanning
is using cosmic ray absorption to do a
similar process to detect interior
structures. They use that method like
the camera like like my camera you have
to always focus data you have to always
perform fast and you have to always
perform tomographic inversion also there
>> yeah so I have some information here
about that and I would love to hear your
opinion on that because they
>> it's a pleasure for me to
>> yeah of course and so again my objective
here is just to get to the bottom of it
because there's there's conflicting data
>> between what the Muon scanning team has
reported and what your team has
reported. So I wanted to get your
interpretation for why that's the case
and then we can we can I'll show the
data here in just a second.
>> Okay.
>> So we have three red squares
>> there. We have a focus at three for the
for who is reading. No.
>> Yes.
>> To give the the readers
a help to interpret that.
>> Correct. Yeah. So, so on the far right,
you can see the edge of the pyramid
there with all of that yellow and red,
that is the surface
>> external casing of the great pyramid
with all of that red and yellow very
intense vibrations because it's closer
to the surface.
>> I like it a lot when you see it. Uh,
it's it's very my my personal opinion is
very it's very is very nice this result.
Okay. Yeah. And we can.
>> And then moving on the inside, we have
one, two, and three.
>> One being the area around the king's
chamber,
>> two being the queen's chamber, and three
is the subterranean chamber.
>> And here I will say that the detection
of the queen's chamber
>> at two. And you can see here the overlay
of the queen's chamber in the center
with the raw scan data. The queen's
chamber always has a very good
signature, a very strong vibrational
signature.
>> Yes. Right.
>> The queen's chamber is a benchmark
because we can see it.
>> And it it would also help you
determining the most effective curtain
or slice.
>> Yeah. So if you have a strong signature
on the queen's chamber, you know that
your tomographic line is lined up
accurately for the objects of interest
in the particular scan. In terms of the
configuration, I'll show some diagrams
and everything in the great pyramid is
aligned right on top of each other. So
again, this just is showing the first
overlay.
>> But I guess we go back there for a
second. My my so super stupid question
is like I'm looking at the raw
tomographic result.
>> Yeah.
>> And I'm looking at one, two, three, and
maybe I see something a little around
one, but two and three look mostly like
in the sort of blue range. Like how do
you convert one to the other? Like what
are we is this is this a failure to
detect or is this a positive detection
of the queen?
>> So let me let me clarify. So all of
these images are screenshots directly
from the paper. And here on the left is
a standard diagram of the Great Pyramid.
This is not one of their models, which
I'll show their models here in just a
second, okay? Where they actually
interpreted the focused scan data into
new 3D models. Okay?
>> So, this is a known standard diagram on
the left.
>> Okay.
>> Overlaid with the focus data. Yeah.
>> And I would agree with that statement
that one and three, you can see the
highlight.
>> Yeah. aren't super encouraging.
>> Yeah.
>> In terms of the detection in this
particular slice.
>> Okay.
>> So, for example, at one,
>> I don't see a clear signature there for
the king's chamber.
>> Sure.
>> And down at three, if you look at the
overlay of the diagram on top of it,
>> it's not picking up the subterranean
chamber either.
>> Yeah.
>> On the far left, you can't see a glow.
>> Which is indicative of these vibrations
from the subterranean chamber. Filippo,
do you agree with that or like do you
agree that it's sort of missing the
subterranean chamber and the king's
chamber?
>> Yes, I agree. Yes.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Yeah. Yeah. And so again, this
just kind of establishes a way for us to
discuss this.
>> It is not mathematical that we can see
in that tomographic line using that
rather image that we can detect things.
Is not mathematical sure. We are not
sure.
we can we have to do uh uh different
measurements in order to have the
results.
>> But I guess my again super dumb question
and I think I'm probably jumping ahead
with it is if we fail to detect certain
chambers in the pyramid,
>> why are we high confidence in structures
going a kilometer deep underneath the
pyramid? Yes, because in the caf
research that we made a few years later
than than this we uh changed the
approach. So so we used very um
uh different geometries on the satellite
data. So with very low uh incidence
angle that means that the the layover of
the of the other images were very high.
But that kind of acquisition when we use
uh low incidence angle
the power of the of the photons are very
high is very high because you see things
like that. So you have a direct
interaction
>> with the earth that kind of um
increasing of power allowed us to see
deeper.
>> Okay.
And uh in that kind of uh configuration
we were able to detect to to uh measure
the structure that were underneath.
>> Did you ever redo the great pyramid and
accurately detect these chambers with
the lower angle of incidence?
>> Yes, that
this it was a medium angle of incidence.
>> So when you say the angle of incident,
let me let me try to interpret that for
the lay person. So when the satellite
starts scanning,
>> yeah,
>> right, this 15 seconds of scanning time,
the process starts lower as opposed to
scanning up here.
>> So you're scanning from lower on the
horizon.
>> We have
>> as opposed to trying to scan from the
top.
>> I give you the answer about this. So we
have to
um do a bit lesson now of how data are
required.
>> Let's say that this is the target.
>> Yeah. that I want to this is 5 km times
5 km
here.
>> It's a huge area. It's a scan.
>> Yeah,
>> it's very generous.
>> I want a picture here.
>> There we go.
>> Okay.
>> This is the satellite.
>> Yeah.
>> The satellite
flies on the on the on an orbit.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. A corvette orbit.
So if I want a an image here in the
other uh field we say I don't want it
squinted. So it means that the sense we
we trace here a vertical line.
We start the sensing here minus 7
seconds
plus 7 seconds 15 seconds right 7.5
like that. So here we begin acting our
sensing and here we release the sensing.
We have the image but SAR is a side
looking
sensor. So we have to tilt.
This is the zero Doppler
T. We have to tilt on the incidence
angle because it's a side looking
>> and we can we can scan let's say never
natural because it doesn't work.
>> So from here like that to here. H from
here to here like that. So we chooed a
very low incidence angle which is the
angle belonging the nadir of our image
and the line of sight this angle. Yeah,
>> this is the incidence angle.
>> Low incidence angle, high lay layover,
high incidence angle, low layover
effect.
>> And that now I tell you what is the
layover like that to like that.
For the caf research project, we use it
low incidence angle. Why? Because the
photons that are transmitted here on the
earth has high power. because the
probability that the photons that arrive
here are retransmitted into the deep
space is low. So you have the scattering
um energy is higher than this that is
lower. Mhm. Okay. Because we wanted to
go inside because we wanted to see
targets very bright because here the
Doppler effect is more we are more
sensitive in the Doppler effect with low
incidence angle with respect to the
higher incidence angle.
>> Okay.
>> Yep. And all of the validation you've
done has been at lower incidence angle.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. And so
>> CC Yes. lower lower incidence angle is
is better.
>> In this case,
>> we wanted to see
>> we were focused on the pyramid on the
pyramid at the beginning in 2020 and
if we if we were using low incidence
angle uh um data the pyramid are
layover. It means that imagine the
pyramid you see the pyramid the pyramid
is is smashed
on the layover. It means that you see
the pyramid like that.
>> Mhm.
>> The pyramid is smashed like that. And so
it is difficult to
>> to see details inside the pyramid. But
we were interested in the in in the
recent um um research that we did that
we did on all the Giza plateau to see
okay the pyramid I don't care about a
lot about the I want to see what there
is below the pyramid I don't so I don't
know why I'm understanding this if you
if I if I am explaining better this so
we use it principally we use it lower in
angle but not everywhere so we use
uh diff incident.
>> Got it. And then you triangulated the
truths from the different incidents and
and are you highly confident that if you
used the same methodology on the great
pyramid again with the different
incidence angles and triangulating them?
>> We did. We did it. But but but it was
not uh um to to retrive things that we
did on 2020 but it was focused to see
what it was deep below the the but I
don't know if I am
>> you know it's super clear did you ever
try to
>> redo just the pyramid itself to make
sure that the accuracy on the chambers
was correct?
>> No but we can
>> but you can do it. Okay. So, so I'll
also you you haven't seen any of this
yet.
>> The first paper data.
>> There's there's way more. Oh, yeah.
>> Yeah. And they've they did
>> there are a lot of results.
>> Oh, yeah. Of course. And I'm going to
show all that so everyone can see it. I
think it's important for everyone to see
it
>> because they did different scans that
show it sometimes.
>> So, we'll get to that now. We can go
ahead and go ahead. So for example, this
next one is this image from this same
scan. It's just a a focused image.
>> Yes. Yes. Okay. Something uh
>> So So this one I I think we ch
>> Yeah. Down below. Right. So I think we
all agree that the imaging of the king's
chamber here is not great, but we do
have a very promising image of the
queen's chamber. Yeah,
>> I would say that this is actually and
you can even see so look at C down there
on the bottom right.
>> You can actually see the horizontal
shaft
>> coming out of the queen's chamber is
detected I would say fairly accurately.
So I think this is again I I kind of
like to look at the positives and the
negatives, right? Objectively analyzing
the data. Yes, Jeff, I tell you this.
Um, the important of the future of this
technique is the the velocity of the uh
to obtain the result the result.
>> So the speed of the radar.
>> No, the speed of the synthesis.
Okay.
>> Okay.
>> You have the SR image you have you have
to perform you have a tomographic light
uh line you have to perform a synthesis.
to perform synthesis you need days days
and days because it is time consuming
consuming the processing you've been in
Corsiano I show you I showed you the
computer big computers but you need time
>> yes
>> and
um the best thing to do now is to um
increase the the the speed so decrease
the time that I have to wait in order to
obtain a tomography okay and So to make
it also let's say
similar real time what does it mean that
this the thing that I am that I'm think
this this is the procedure that I'm
thinking that we will do it in the
future uh I think that the future of
this technique is this you have an image
you have a a tomographic line but this
tomographic line you can move it
>> in real time and on a monitor you will
see
>> to see yeah like a CT scan
>> like where you move through the section
>> and see all the different layers
>> all the things because I remember when
when we we we did but also on the caf
project you have at uh you you you
launch a process you have to wait 15
days and I forgot what what what we are
watching so it is a bit no a bit not not
so not so useful for it is for research
Okay, you want to be able to do we did
the paper. We did the paper. But if we
want to do several scans, we have to you
have to wait a lot to have the results.
So in my personal opinion, now the thing
that we are doing is this. We have to
reconer the software. We have to use a
rise of GPU. A rise of GPU.
>> Yeah. Maybe we can also
uh multiply the processing power also
for I don't know I can say 10,000 times
it means that 15 days will become 30
seconds is good passing from 15 days
into 30 seconds but to do this I need
investments we need uh I can't do it but
in my best uh uh in my personal opinion
the future of this because here the
problem that that and thank you for
giving me rising these problems.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> That we are having now is related to the
processing time because this is only one
tomographic line. If you move uh in real
time on a plethora of adent uh
tomographic lines, you can see
everything everything
and you do it real time like like when
you go to the to the doctor.
>> Yeah.
>> You make a scan of your of your uh
>> I don't know whether it's CT scan or MRI
but where they can literally move
through the different I think it's a CT
scan. Yeah. where you can literally move
through the sections in real time, but
it's also like you said, it requires
super high processing power. Yes. And
this is just the initial
>> possible to do it.
>> Of course. Yeah.
>> This is 1.0. You can you can move also,
>> right? That's what I was going to say,
>> but it's not my it's not for me on on my
on my I don't know.
>> I think the the burning question people
have now is what gives if if this is
just one tomographic scan, you have to
wait 16 days. Is that the same method
outside of the angle of incidence that
you used for detecting the substructures
below the comp?
>> The same method. It's the same method.
Absolutely. Yes. And has been improved
in terms of
uh details of the method
>> mainly angle of incidence or anything
else?
>> Uh we have used different incident
incidence angle scanning the the bit of
the earth not it's the same.
>> Okay. and all the the validation that
you've done at Grand Saso Osiris
>> was that with the multiple angles of
incidence and the triangulating it was
yes because the Gasasso
>> it is very high it is nearly 3,000 m 200
2,990
m 93 I think
and there the layover effect is uh
massive
present on the s image. So I had to to
to to let's say order um different
images in order to choose the best one
in my for me the best one maybe other
image could be also better uh in order
to retrive the the laboratory to detract
the the laboratory.
>> So here's another different scan
>> okay
>> of of the king's chamber.
>> Yeah. So, so when they say Zed chamber,
they're referring to what's
conventionally called the king's
chamber.
>> And this scan image looks qualitatively
different than what we see here.
>> It's not the same tomography, is it?
>> Correct. Yeah. A different tomographic
line. So, you've gone in and taken a
different vertical slice
>> as I told you.
>> Yes.
>> If you have a speed, you can do it real
time. So you will in real time choose
the the best one to to show to the to
the customers who wants to.
>> And so in my interpretation here, so you
see the horizontal signatures,
>> these are the granite beams
>> that are part of a structure known as
the relieving chamber,
>> which is a structure located above. You
can see the diagram on the left. Again,
this is a known archaeological diagram
of the king's chamber, not a 3D model of
their interpretation of the new stuff.
So, these overlays are just taking known
diagrams,
overlapping it with the tomographic
data, so we can see where these things
correspond. And if you look there on the
right, you can actually kind of see the
slope angle of the triangle at the top.
You see it kind of it picks it picks
that up to a little bit on the right.
>> You see that slope
>> that align with the top of the chamber
>> and the horizontal signatures of these
granite lintal beams.
>> Mhm.
>> So we do have again the red is
indicating a very strong vibrational
signature from inside of the structure.
And I will say that this one is pretty
good. Mhm.
>> I was I was when I saw this originally,
I was like, "Oh, this is this is
promising
>> for detection of the king's chamber."
>> But you also have to keep in mind the
king's chamber is made of granite.
>> So there is a qualitative difference in
the material of construction that's
specifically related to the quality of
the detection.
So, for example, the surrounding mass is
all limestone,
but the king's chamber is made of
granite, which is maybe one of the
reasons why we're getting such a good
signature on this particular tomographic
line.
>> Would you agree with that, Falipo?
>> Absolutely. Yes. I I think that we are
detecting also the so-called
sarcophagus, which is not a sarophagus
that that is inside the king's chamber.
Yes, that facility there. Okay. Yeah,
>> cool.
>> So, the only questions I had on this
one, so the big red signature at the
bottom Yeah.
>> is just background interference,
>> but you have a
>> the floor.
>> The floor. The floor. No. Of there is a
floor.
>> Okay. And I'll I'll get back to that in
just a second.
>> Regarding the bedrock.
>> Yeah. So the conventional explanation of
the bedrock foundation below the great
pyramid is that it stops somewhere near
the grotto
>> at the base of the pyramid.
>> But in my opinion, the bedrock mound is
actually much taller
>> than we think.
>> And one of your other scans shows what
may be the true level of the bedrock.
And in my opinion, the king's chamber is
sitting on top of a bedrock foundation
within the pyramid, which is what? Yeah,
>> there we are detecting something that uh
>> Right.
>> So, this is a good one. This is a
promising signature.
>> You know, there are some tracers
>> that go outside of the limits of the
known chamber, but this is pretty good.
Mhm.
>> Okay. So, the next one here, this is
where things got really interesting for
me with the first paper. So, again,
we're looking at the queen's chamber.
>> And what they have here at the bottom is
a scan of the queen's chamber in the
center of the pyramid. And it has been
anecdotally reported and documented from
the original excavations of the Great
Pyramid that there is a shaft and
chamber system located below the Queen's
chamber.
>> So they excavated this. They found a pit
in the Queen's chamber that was filled
with rubble and dirt. They excavated
down into it and they found a shaft and
tunnel system and chamber system located
below the queen's chamber. It is now
completely covered up and sealed with
modern blocks. They covered up the hole
permanently.
>> Again, reported anecdotally and in some
of the documents regarding the original
excavations. And what they're showing
here is actually the presence of a shaft
system coming out of the bottom of the
queen's chamber.
>> So that's very promising.
>> And I propose the same thing based on
these archaeological reports in my book
that there is an extraction shaft
>> and chamber system located below the
queen's chamber. So again, when I saw
this back in 2020, this was very
promising and encouraging for me because
they are corroborating
hidden structures that are now
completely covered up which may actually
exist inside of the pyramid. So I was
very excited when I saw this originally
and they did a great model which I'll
show here in just a second that shows
that complete shaft and chamber system
coming out of the queen's chamber. So, I
wanted to highlight this as a very
possible substantiation of something
that was reported, you know, in the late
1800s, early 1900s when they were doing
the original excavations, but has now
been completely covered up and ignored
and dismissed as
>> not possible.
>> But they are showing that potentially
>> it could exist. Yes. And um I just have
to remark the fact that in this
tomography we are not observing the
corridors the shanding corridors there.
>> Yes,
>> there are two reasons and uh maybe they
can be both of them. Uh the first one is
that in order to detect those corridors,
we have to be very sure that the
tomographic line goes into intercept
those corridors. Okay.
And
in that case we need speed. We need the
real time facility.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. The second is that probably it's
not possible because the corridor is too
small. Okay.
>> Okay.
>> But I am orientated to the first to the
first one that the tomographic line we
used is not perfectly oriented on the
corridor because the corridor is very
small.
>> Yeah. Yeah. and I'll show a vertical
diagram of the alignment of the chambers
so that we can all take a look at that
in relation to the discussion of the
tomographic line. My only other point on
this one is again the subterranean
chamber that's embedded in the bedrock
is not detected in this scan which is a
similar issue to what you had with the
Kafra project is that it's not able to
detect this bedrock excavated chamber
which is a an issue when you extrapolate
scanning into the bedrock to detect
structures a kilometer underground. I
tell you a piece of corridor it is
possible to to detect it because it's
this
>> here I can do I can do it here. Yeah. So
so basically what he's pointing at is
sort of this line here.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right.
>> But how can you differentiate from a
scientific perspective between all of
the background interference
>> dealing with light? It is very
important.
>> Yeah. Because there's a lot of
background interference here.
>> Yes. Yes. When you are dealing with
light you have a laser. The laser
travels the the free space and goes to
the target. You see the target very well
because the light travels only the empty
space and not the matter. Here the
acoustics are traveling in the matter
and matter is a mess. is the matter that
is underneath that is the MS not the
acoustics that we are using to detect
the matter
>> I don't know if I am explaining well
this
>> so the composition of the bedrock itself
>> is interfering with the register of the
signal
>> yes
>> okay that's that's problematic
>> because especially if you're trying to
scan
>> into a kilometer of bedrock
>> you you uh you can do it this here we
are dealing to uh retrive information of
things very small very small chain very
small
>> yeah the passage is is small going down
into the subterranean chamber
>> you can see them but the background is
composed by other targets
>> but Filippo maybe can you address the
basic point Jeffrey's making that the
composition of the bedrock is important
for the veracity or accuracy of the
findings that you get. And so if there's
any issues with certain bedrock in these
readings where granite is better than
limestone and you're trying to go
through a kilometer,
>> you know, deep of what is it? Limestone.
>> Bedrock. Yeah, limestone. Limestone
bedrock. Then then how are you able to
be so confident?
>> But in that case, we uh have detected ah
this is very nice. Yeah,
>> in that case we have detected things
that were really uh predominant with
respect to the bedrock how you say
background detection.
>> We will arrive to the or we are
>> yeah I have everything. Okay.
I included everything to make sure that
people could see all of the information.
>> But I think we have to do part one and
part two.
I I get what he's saying, which is like
if you control for um the background
micro vibrations being created by really
like these are large mega structures and
so if you're trying to find a you know a
small chamber and then you could have
issues on bedrock even if the whole
thing is happening superficially.
Whereas if you're looking at mega
structures
>> and this is also very different the
process in scanning from space
as compared to the vetted technology of
muon scanning which is done inside with
detectors inside of the structure.
>> You have to anticipate some flexibility
in the ability to detect small
components that because again you're
scanning from a satellite from space. So
there
>> well this is this is I mean another
really interesting question is all of
your cases of validation involve
structures that might be below the
surface of the earth but not this far
below. Do you have validation that
exists in the case of things I mean
obviously like it's hard to go a
kilometer plus deep just generally I
think very you know very few mining and
excavation sites have done that but do
you have any validation?
>> Oh I have uh
>> that's gone that deep. I did a lot of
pilot tests with companies.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And uh more than 100% successful. But
>> really
>> that's another another
because here we are dealing with
>> when you say when you say pilot test.
>> Yeah.
>> With companies. So this is used in a
commercial context.
>> Yes. We are moving in commercial. Yes.
Absolutely. Yes.
>> Got it. Okay. And this is like mining
and
>> mining.
>> Okay. Then these are I assume you have
to be somewhat cheeky about this because
you're under NDA sort of thing. Okay.
>> I am under NDA so I can't say more than
this.
>> But you have you have 100% success like
no no one
>> under 100 more.
>> How do you go more than 100?
>> They phone me every five minutes.
>> Okay. So they're really pumped to work
with you.
>> Say more than this
>> I will say that's fascinating. the
mining and metallurgical applications of
the technology.
>> Yeah.
>> Are directly applicable to the specific
geology metal. There's metal ore mineral
deposits all over the Giza plateau.
>> Yeah.
>> You're familiar.
>> I'll show it in just a minute because
there's there's iron or metal mineral
deposits all over and below the Giza
plateau. Yeah. We have chemical analysis
data from these iron veins, hydrothermal
mineral deposits embedded in the bedrock
that are permeated with rare earth
elements, gold, silver, things like
platinum and titanium have been
discovered in these metal ore veins
embedded in the bedrock of the Giza
Plateau. So there's a direct correlation
between the applications that he's
describing for this technology and the
investigation of the truth of what's
really below the Giza plateau.
>> We may differ on our interpretation
about that, but we absolutely agree that
there is something down there that is
absolutely important to understand. I
always I always I always love when I
bump up against the limits of what
Felippo can say because
>> I do feel uh confidence coming from him
that there's like a lot that isn't quite
open source that you know I mean both
commercially and defense-wise that he
just can't really talk about.
>> Sure. Yeah. And we we've talked
privately about that as well.
>> No, no, it's okay. It's okay. But uh
yeah, again, unless you're like a great
con man, which I don't I don't think you
are. Yeah. And my my only questions in
regard to
>> how nice the the Queen look.
>> Yes, it's there.
>> But
what that corridor is the story of that
corridor.
>> But what about the Grand Gallery and the
the But that's that's good. But we're
completely missing the Grand Gallery and
the King's Chamber.
>> I tell you why.
>> So you have one out of three.
>> Well, let him let Okay. So what? Yeah.
Why?
>> I tell you why. Uh we we go back into
the uh the the the things that I told
that I
that that we were discussing
um five minutes ago in this tomographic
line. You don't see the grand gallery.
But the grand gallery is good that I
don't see it because I can see the air
that is inside the grand gallery. It's
good. The the grand gallery is a tube
like that.
>> Correct. rectangular cube. I see the top
of the grand gallery. Then you you have
the air
>> blue and then
>> and then I don't see nothing. I see the
the the the queen's
uh chamber. It's it's good like that.
You move the tomographic line, you
integrate and you perform a 3D
reconstruction. But to do this, we we
need the computer, Jeffrey, right? We
need arise of of GPUs that at the moment
I don't.
>> What's the word you're using? A rise of
GPUs.
Ar main frame like that.
>> Okay. An array of GPU. That's what I
thought he was saying. Okay. Sorry, I'm
laughing.
>> No. Okay. Yeah. Um.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, you need you need more
compute essentially and you need to do
this be able to do this in real time
live.
>> If I have thousands of GPU, we can do
it.
>> So, how how much out of curiosity, how
much money would that require? I don't I
I can't tell you now. I don't know. But
>> what if there's some an investor in the
audience that wants to help you out? How
what would is there a certain amount
that would help you?
>> Maybe with uh
I don't know with
I don't know millions. Millions in the
overall millions. Yes, we can we can uh
we can uh have uh we will speak about
the foundation that uh uh we are
standing in Malta
set setting up in Malta. We have uh uh a
we have rented a nice uh place where we
have installed a solar power plane,
power station
and inside there we we would like to to
set up a data center
>> and there if we have uh donators we can
buy
a mainframe with ar with an array of
GPUs.
>> Well, we should just for humanity,
somebody should some somebody should do
this not for for profit but just for
>> just to like
>> the foundation works philanthropy.
>> No, it's it's it's it seems like money
well spent if you're you know you want
to go kind of Carnegie gospel of wealth,
you know, this this should be like the
first on your list. So, and what you're
working on too
>> with the three computers that you saw in
my house, we can do this.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, so but but but what do
you what what do you say Jeffrey to
>> and they are also expensive those
computers.
>> Got it. Yeah, there you go. Okay, that's
established. Uh uh Jeffrey, what do you
say to uh Filippo's point that the Grand
Gallery is actually detected? It's just
one vertical slice and you see you do
see the air.
>> Yeah, I'll get to that in just a second.
>> You see that the Grand Gallery
>> is blue because you have air inside the
Grand Gallery. Yeah.
>> So I guess he's saying here inside of
the grand
>> inside. Okay.
>> So the other things I wanted to point
out here. So this signature above.
>> Yeah.
>> And this big signature here.
>> That's the big void.
>> The big void.
>> Yes. And you have detected the big void
also.
>> Yes. Yes. That's the big void. And we'll
get to that in a comparison between the
location of the big void suggested by
the Muan team
>> and the position that has been detected
by the S team. It's slightly different.
The
>> in my personal opinion that is the big
void because it's located
>> or the big one here
>> the the big one there.
>> The big one. Yeah.
>> Okay. So the Muan team is saying that
it's located directly above the grand
gallery. Mhm.
>> the position of the big void that
they're actually going to be excavating
into the Great Pyramid in 2026 to
investigate the Big Void. So, an actual
exploration is coming up to get a chance
to see what's in there. Um, so again, I
I'm just objectively looking at these
things. I do agree there's a fantastic
signature here and we talked about this
too, Filippo, at the Malta conference
that it's a different in the slice. If
you move the slice, you might be able to
better better detect it. So another
thing here is tag 17 and 18.
>> That's fantastic in my son which is very
nice.
>> Um I have it again in a slide. Okay. So
let's look at the position.
So here is the configuration of the
great pyramid and this is the vertical
alignment
>> of the chambers. So you can see if you
were to scan the tomographic line at the
far left of the king's chamber.
>> Yeah.
>> You would only pick up the king's
chamber and not pick up any of the other
stuff.
>> If you scan on the far right of the
king's chamber,
>> you should pick up all of the components
because everything would be aligned in
the same tomographic slice.
>> Yep. You cannot detect the king's
chamber without also picking up the
grand gallery, queen's chamber,
subterranean,
>> multiple.
>> Correct. Correct. Yeah. There's also
>> by the array of GPUs.
>> Sure. But there's this is this is kind
of an an explanation for why that may be
the case is the different slices that
break it down.
>> Could have been on the left. You you may
do a slice down the middle that picks up
the king's chamber and the queen's
chamber
here and here, but it doesn't pick up
the grand gallery.
>> Yep.
>> So, this is an explanation for why we
get register of certain chambers with
different tomographic lines because
we're just slicing down the middle and
the slice doesn't always land on all
three simultaneously.
Okay. So, the next one here is the
discovery of this new passage.
>> Yeah.
>> Right on the northern side of the Great
Pyramid. They just drilled.
>> I have to I have to say this. We
discovered it for the first for the
first time. So,
>> that uh
>> That's amazing. Is that true?
>> So, what we're So, let me explain what
we have here. So, we have tag 17 and tag
>> which is showing this little passage
here.
>> That's the cord.
>> Yep. Yep. Right here. And it starts
right here under the chevrons, which is
where they found this passage. And we
have an overlay of the chevrons and the
new passage that was discovered.
>> My only issue on this
>> is that the signature actually starts
out here.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Those are multiple reflections of
the radar.
>> So reflections of the radar.
>> Yes. Multip multiple reflection. The
interaction of the electromagnetic waves
from the the floor of the pyramid and
the pyramid can give you multiple
reflection. It's normal and that
multiple reflections are affects also
the tomographic line.
>> Okay. So you're saying reflections of
the radar
>> can create signatures that would appear
similar
>> to the signature of an actual chamber.
not can be mitigated only having
multiple scans and so you can average
your results and you see it absolutely
better.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. I'm I'm with you. Yeah. All right.
>> It's simple that
the best signature you have you have it
on the chevron the chevron and you are
detecting the chevron. Look here.
>> Why am I saying you multiple? Because
you have the pyramid, then you have the
chevron like that and you have the other
the and there you have such multipath of
the radar.
>> Are you saying that tag 18 wasn't even
known by conventional?
>> No, no, it was it was known. The
chevrons are are visible on the
>> 17 was not known.
>> They recently and what is tag 17?
>> It's just it's a deadend shaft. You can
see the overlay of it here. The
corridor.
>> Yeah. So they they recently
>> that's remarkable that he he discovered
it basically through the is that before
>> they detected it. Yeah. That this was
this was detected by the team in 2020
and they recently went inside of this
with a microscopic camera. They drilled
in below the chevrons to look into this
dead end. It's a dead end shaft on the
northern side of the Great Pyramid.
>> That's impressive. And if you go to the
result, if you if you switch off the
over the overlay,
>> you can detect also the the top of the
corridor and the floor of the corridor.
There are two lines.
>> Yeah. The top here and the bottom here.
>> And you can measure also. And if you
compare the measurements with the video
because they scan it are the same. And
then you see that is 9 m longer. I don't
remember but it's 9 9 m long. There is
something a piece of stone that goes but
here you can see what there is over that
piece of stone which which is I I tell
you here
>> this one and I I am waiting somebody
that is discovering that anti- camera
>> anti camera anti chamber what
>> anti-chamber it's a chamber I call it
anti camera it's a chamber
>> okay
>> and that chamber goes directly to the
grand gallery
Okay. And then allows you in my for me
also to go naturally to the big void.
That is the real the real position of
the big void is that one.
>> Okay.
>> Jeffrey the future will will give what
what can what yeah to give you making a
claim. That's I love it.
>> Um so Matt Bell Yeah. from the Limitless
podcast
>> is involved in financing of the
development of robotics to investigate
the shafts in the Queen's Chamber.
>> Cool.
>> They're going to be sending a robot up
the northern shaft to drill in the
comparable feature known as Gatenbrinks
Door, which was investigated in the
southern shaft. They're going to be
drilling through a new piece with a new
robot on the northern side. And they're
also collaborating on the investigation
of the Big Void. So they will be
hopefully it's been approved, but
everything keeps getting pushed back and
pushed back and pushed back and pushed
back as things happen in Egypt
supposedly on the table for 2026 that
they're actually going to be drilling
into and investigating the big void.
>> That's remarkable. And I think, you
know, it sounds like Felippo is making a
prediction there. I also think I do
think it's amazing that tag 17 this
corridor deadend shaft he's sort of you
know you know they made a claim there
and they found it.
>> Yeah. So this was 2020. This was before
the the recent
>> I believe this was detected with the
Muan scans the Muan scanning. So the
Muan group. Yes. The scan pyramids
project is the
sanctioned and approved scanning team
that they have used for these projects.
>> They really only collaborate with this
scan pyramids team.
>> You know, we were just talking off
camera about how much we're both
enjoying this conversation. so many
>> and a lot of people have have
misinterpreted my questioning of the
data as disbelief or an attempt to
debunk but that's not really the case at
all and they just they don't understand
that we have an existing relationship
and
>> again
>> it is it is true that we is good that we
discuss about the results because the
results is not like a religion no it is
something that no we can discuss
>> course I love that yeah first the fact
that you're saying it's not a sacred cow
or a third rail. It's just a thing you
can talk about and you know you can
criticize and you can defend and you
know it's all good. That's a beautiful
thing that commitment to the kind of you
know Socratic process. But I was also
Jeffrey and I were talking I think a lot
of these discussions go into like it's
like it's always framed as adversarial.
It's always it's always you know um
skeptic and debunker versus you know
person making some bold claim and then
the person the skeptic doesn't even look
at the assertions and make first
principles arguments. It turns into this
kind of it devolves into ad homonyms and
you get into these highle heruristics of
probabilistically this thing can't be
true or whatever. And what I love about
this conversation is, and then we can
get out of the meta and get back into
the first principle, but it it's that
you are really just asking questions
that I think everybody wants to know
that are at the first principles level
and they're they're reasonable
questions.
>> I'm captivated by this process. Again,
when I found this in 2022, I was like,
this is super important. Whether it's
true or it's not, it's the development
of new technology and an approach that
could eventually be implemented into
something very significant, which is the
purpose of all the videos that I've made
about this, have prefaced it with saying
this is the type of technology we need.
We're on the precipice of a greater
understanding using unique methodology
to understand the structures that's
going to get us to the deeper
understanding.
>> Yes. And Filippo, you said during the
conversation that it's still in the
initial stages and there's improvements
that can be made with the technology,
further investigations that need to
happen.
>> We need hardware. We need a lot of
hardware. Hardware and power. C can I
ask one thing actually before we get
back into this which is um speaking of
skeptics I did watch Flint Dibble's
video about you and I found a lot of it
to be a little ridiculous but there were
certain points he made which I think
were
>> we can discuss now if you remember the
>> I do remember I remember one one point
which I found very val well well one of
the points was like it's too hot to
build that deep it's too hot to build
artificial structure
>> okay
>> so that felt reasonable and we can get
to that
>> it is connected to the the the heat is
connected to um our research project
that the third part of the of this
research going in C2 but we will discuss
at the end of this uh conversation sorry
a little teaser there no so yeah let's
let's definitely circle back on that and
then the second one which I think
relates more to this discussion we were
just you know having around the
commercial use cases of this technology
>> is he said you let your patents expire
fire. Is that true?
>> Yes. By initial patent at the moment is
expired. Absolutely. Yes. Uh maybe we
can recover this uh in United States we
give you a grace period in order to
recover this patent. Uh maybe we will do
it. But I am uh I have submitted a
second patent which I can't disclose the
okay the things but I have submit a
second patent that deals is connected to
the first patent and um uh uh gives huge
novellity but I can't speak about this
>> would fair yeah you definitely should
yeah no don't telegraph your IP
question I would have is if the first
patent is in some way related to the
second patent. Yeah. And I might it
might be a gateway. If I'm a scientist
and I figure out what's going on in the
first patent, which you have
telegraphed, it is in the USPTO.
>> I read it,
>> it helps me figure out the second
patent, why wouldn't you also try to
maintain the first patent and just
>> keep enforcing it?
>> Yes. Uh but I tell you Jesse the
question of patent or in the commercial
or in the philanthropic I want to work
on the philanthropic and also in the
commercial because I like to to work
with my technique is for me is very
exciting. But uh yes, the patent will
give you the rights to be only the alone
to only me um give me the rights to
commercialize
uh exclusively this technique. Okay. But
the important thing is also the
technology that is behind the the the
software. No, the software is uh crucial
in this uh in this in this deal. So
>> Got it.
>> Yes. Pardon? No pardon, but you you need
the software.
>> Okay. Yeah. And and and and I that's a
good answer because you speak to most
people in fields of aerospace or kind of
hard science and they'll always say
patents are barely enforcable. Uh there
it's really it's really about trade
secrets and it's about knowing how to do
something that no one else is going to
figure out. It's not really about the
patent. So uh I appreciate you is not is
not so important but um and now we have
a second padent
but the the the crucial point here is
the technology and the technology is
made by hardware and software. Yeah,
it's it's funny. It's like, you know, I
don't know why why would he go out and
make a YouTube video and just in this
shrill way start like, you know, yelling
at you instead of just be like, "Hey,
Filippo, like my name's Flint, like you
know, like why did you let your patents
expire?" Because that that answer I you
know, you have a reasonable response
there. So, I don't know. It's
interesting. But, um, Jeffrey, I think
you should continue with your kind of
first principles questioning. Well, I
think this is why this conversation is
working because like we're friends, like
we've met before and we've spent
personal time together. The important
thing for me, as I've shown in this
presentation, is that if we do have
novel structures, it's critical that
they can be interpreted into a
functional hypothesis. For example, the
shaft system below the queen's chamber.
It's been reported in archaeological
documents and you should have a model
that interprets that into the function
of the structure which I've shown it's
part of the extraction shaft system that
was used to remove the product solution
from the great pyramid. So I have done
that in my work is entertain these ideas
although speculative at this point
because we haven't done actual
archaeological excavations to prove any
of this yet. I've taken it and
incorporated it in a hypothetical
working model where these new structures
actually fit with what I've proposed.
For example, the big void it's in a
perfect location for a heat exchanger.
>> Right? Anytime you have exothermic
reactions within a structure or an
operating chemical manufacturing
apparatus, you want a mechanism that can
remove some of that thermal energy from
the system. And the big void, although
it's shown by the Muan team in a little
bit different position, located above
the Grand Gallery, is the ideal position
for a heat exchanger that would remove
some of that thermal energy from the
reaction in the Grand Gallery,
>> which we can get into much deeper depth.
You know, whether which one comes out
first, we don't know quite yet, but
we'll get into much more depth on the
function of the Great Pyramid and how
this new void, it's definitely real,
right? We've detected it with the Muan
scanning. You've you found it already
and they're 100% going to go in there
and and investigate
>> feeling which is the exact shape of the
where it is exactly me a meter on the
left a meter on the on the right but
there is a big void it is.
>> So that's actually a good transition.
Yeah.
>> But it's very probable.
>> So you know we've talked about the
initial scans here on the left is the
first of the 3D models. So before what
we had is an overlay of the processed
focus data on top of existing
archaeological diagrams.
>> What we have now are the new 3D models
that
>> Filippo can you explain how these 3D
models were developed? Who made these
and how were they created?
>> The 3D model was done by the authors of
the paper. So uh it was done by Colorado
and me
>> right
>> together
>> right. So basically what they've done is
take the focused data and interpreted it
into a new model showing all of these
features that they've discovered which
we'll get into that now.
>> So talking about the position of the big
void.
>> Okay. So again the scan pyramids project
and this muon scanning. So, muon
scanning involves cosmic ray absorption.
>> These cosmic rays that come down from
the atmosphere.
There's a a series of detection devices
that are put inside the pyramid. You can
see them here in the queen's chamber and
they also have some on the outside of
the pyramid on the northern side. And
essentially these muon detectors detect
the absorption and defraction of these
muon rays that are passing through the
pyramid structure. Right? So these
cosmic rays actually do permeate the
structure. The chambers will reflect
them in different directions and the
detectors monitor the difference between
the body of the pyramid and the chambers
of the pyramid which by the way I will
say it's an energy matter conversion
that's going on there too and so it's
similar you know for the people who are
like you can't derive matter through
like you know energetic means like you
know it's sort of you know somewhat
analogous technique
>> so in this instance they're just using
natural energetic electromag magnetic
energy that's coming from the
atmosphere. Muons. Yeah. Cosmic rays.
>> Cosmic rays, not electromagnetic.
>> Okay. So, can you clarify the
difference?
>> It's the same. It's the same. The
principle is the same.
>> Is it is a cosmic ray not
electromagnetic?
>> No. No. No. Electromagnetics are
photons, light.
>> Yeah.
>> Cosmic rates are particles
>> that are very small that penetrates
matter.
>> Like I think I associate cosmic rays
with neutrons. Is that roughly? The the
neutron is very big
>> or cosmic radiation
>> is very big. Okay.
>> It's very big. Newton is like a bullet
that it's very big and it is the
principle of
>> so what particles would you associate
with cosmic
>> um
neutron neutron
>> is a big bullet
>> big one
>> that is uh uh the principal actor of the
fion in nuclear energy production
reaction okay because the neutron goes
to another atom that uh split splits the
atom of uranium. It splits and generates
other three neutrons that goes to split
other atoms. And so the chain reaction
is activated after a so-called critical
mass okay
of uranium
235 that has been enriched at least from
25%
up to 90%. H it depends of the
application in the civilian application.
So uh in ci in civilian so um uh power
plants atomic power plants not nuclear
atomic power plants are uh 20 20 25 28%
of enrichment
uh no for maybe less 15% enrichment I
don't remember exactly the the number uh
and then uh or you can go also in 90%
for other kind of application huons
are smaller.
So they penetrate the the the
huge mass of the of the pyramid. But
while they are traveling along a line of
sight when they uh when they find avoid
the law of um uh refraction
>> refraction. Yeah. they can change
slightly the orientation of the uh of
the of of of the pet t like that tuck.
And so the detectors can will detect an
a history of these muons while are
traveling the um uh the uh pyramid. The
good thing is that muons are uh free
because they are the cosmic ray and they
are very they are it is like a
transmission that is parallel because
they come from very far and so they are
parallel it's a parallel transmission so
it is like a plane wave in the
electromagnetics in the term of signal
processing I can do it blind though that
signal process is a very basic signal
processing that they use uh on the the
detectors are uh detecting the muons and
so you have a history a history of
integration because I think that the
that they that they has to be there
months
>> yeah it sits there
>> you have an integration of months
the difference between muons and uh my
technique is uh it's not so different
because you have to do you have to focus
the rod data there. You have to do an
FFT in order to retrieve the the
tomographic slice that belongs between
the tomographic line is is due by the
detectors that are be that are in the in
the chamber and what you see is the a
vertical cain that starts from the
detector to the end of the pyramid.
That's the the your your tomography only
there.
>> Yeah. And in six months, I don't know
how many tomographic slice you you can
retrive. It depends on the um on the
detector width that you have inside the
chamber.
>> Yeah.
>> So this muon technology is the accepted
and utilized archaeological procedure
for detecting these internal chambers.
And as you can see here, they had these
muon scanning devices in the detectors
set up in the queen's chamber and they
were investigating the presence of this
big void.
>> And you can see here a big So again to
to clarify the difference, the muons
actually do penetrate the body of the
structure. And the detectors are
measuring the difference in the
reflection and the absorption of the
rays as they pass through the various
chambers. And they only show so they
don't show like Filippo's work does a
two-dimensional slice. So it doesn't
have the same tomographic line
capability. The raw data that they show
in this paper is only a top-down view
because that's the way the detectors are
looking, right? So they're looking up
>> but because they don't know how to do it
because you can I don't I don't say
anything now because you can do also
tomography with that. They don't know
how to do it.
>> Okay. because you can do but I don't I I
don't say things that then they they can
replicate.
>> Yeah. And that's why I incorporated this
because I wanted to hear your
professional interpretation and opinion
on this accepted technology and the
reason why there might be a difference
in what they're showing versus what
you're showing because there there has
to be an explanation.
>> That's a two-dimensional
uh horizontal plane, not vertical plane.
But it's good. We can we can interpret
it like that. But you can do also using
muons also tomography you can do it.
>> Can we get a little context on who's
doing the muan scans and when?
>> So this has been going on. So I'm I'm
certainly no expert in this. This paper
is published by um they work with a
Japanese team that's been sponsoring and
providing the funding for all of this
working in conjunction with the Ministry
of Antiquities. And I think this was
published I don't have the publishing
date but this was um but muan detection
generally in the context of the great
great pyramids uh or the Giza plateau
rather uh would date back to like the
70s I believe Walter
>> so they they muon scanned the central
pyramid back in the 70s and I have that
paper in here as well so we can discuss
the muon scanning of the central pyramid
compared to the new s scanning I'm not
Again, I'm not an expert in the
technology. That's why I would defer to
Filippo to answer the questions.
>> You you went in the detail about this
paper because you are now explaining me
how how we can read their data, their
results. That is important.
>> Yeah. And again, I I I wanted to be as
transparent as possible in the
conversation where I present all of the
information that we have to analyze all
of it in conjunction with what the S
team has presented. And this is just the
opposing technology that has been
conventionally accepted because again S
is new. It's controversial. People are
either loving it or hating it. But this
is the accepted technology
>> as their adoplo tomography is. Yeah.
>> Correct. Yeah. Yeah. And the muon
scanning is accepted within the
archaeological community as the
established methodology for scanning
internal chambers. And and just to add a
little context, I think the original guy
was Luis Walter Alvarez, who was not
only extremely high up in the Manhattan
project and instrumental in, you know,
nuclear uh fishing um and and creating
the atom bomb. Um but he and his son
actually developed this theory that
dinosaurs were wiped off the face of the
earth due to an asteroid impact. And it
wasn't really accepted for a long time.
>> I think I want to say this paper. I I'll
look at the the name sounds familiar and
he may be the author of this cuz it was
during the 1970s when they muon scanned
the central pyramid.
>> So this was this idea that 66 million
years ago you had this you know big
asteroid impact and it wasn't really
respected until until later on. And so I
do think the muan scanning was always a
little bit more accepted. But it is it
is interesting you know that things
start stigmatized and then they they
often come
>> this technique you can't separate and
this is important that I I have to it's
good I I love this technique but you
can't separate vertical layers. So you
see you are watching here the sum of all
the vertical layers composing the
pyramid. The layers, the layers. Yeah.
Vertical layers.
>> No, vertically. No, sorry. Horizontal.
Vertically, the vertically sum of all
the horizontal liars that the
sensitivity probably a cone sensitivity.
Yes. The detectors are watching.
>> Correct. And they also mentioned this in
the other paper. The cone of detection
is mentioned in the paper regarding the
central pyramid scan. So what we're
looking at here is again it's the
focused processed data
>> of the muon detection process
>> and and what we have here at a
>> they can detect a
vertical sensitivity by using two or
more observations. So you put a detector
here
>> correct? Yeah, you can see the
>> put the detector there and you and you
perform
>> photoggramometry
in the moon domain. With
photoggramometry they can let's say with
an approximation
that twice the approximation of the
position of the big void because they
are not sure because you have a base of
difference of difference in viewing in
the moon uh domain.
>> Yeah. So the view angle of the muon
detectors you can see here that the one
placed inside the uh the queen's chamber
is looking up
>> and then they have the second detector
on the northern face so that it's
looking up in this direction and then
into the structure so that they can do a
comparison between what's detected on
scanner A and scanner B to to come up
with a composite image of the location
of this new void. Mhm.
>> So again, I thought this was important
to include, and this is the data.
>> So A is the signature on all four of
these of the king's chamber.
>> B is the location of the Grand Gallery.
And here is the detection of the new
void.
>> So they're showing it. Again, this is
not very reassuring either. Look what I
understand.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Also I I'm I'm
sorry Jeffrey but my results are better
than this. Well, no. I Filippo, that's
why I put this in here was for the exact
reason
>> we say
in Roman Latin.
>> You said that during the presentation
and I still have no idea what
I tell you. I will translate, but to all
the Italians is
like asking the owner of the restaurant
if his wine is good. Okay.
So that's why I
>> sarder tomography over muons all day
muon detection. Yeah. Okay.
>> So that's why I put this in here. It's
for the lay person, right? Who's looking
at Filippo's data and they're saying I
can't understand anything of what I'm
seeing here. It just looks like a bunch
of mess.
>> Yeah.
>> If you look at this,
>> this looks like a bunch of mess, too.
Right. And you really have to have an
expert at that particular scanning
technology do a detailed assessment of
what we're actually looking at here. But
this the reason I put this in is is this
is the the data
>> that they have used to justify the
archaeological excavations that will
occur to investigate the big void. This
is what it looks like.
>> Oh yeah. I mean
>> it's like what the hell are we looking
at?
>> Nice void. Big void.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's like So, when I I I I
pulled this up after I did Danny's shows
because we were talking. Yeah. Yeah.
Exactly.
>> Exactly. No, it looks like abstract. It
looks like a nice album cover to me.
>> Yeah.
>> Because I wanted to see I'm a stickler
for looking at the raw data. I don't
like looking at the models. I don't
like, you know, I want to see the actual
Show me what the scans show. Like we
were talking about with the Labyrinth in
Hara scan.
>> Yeah.
>> Show me the actual scan. Well, this was
a I mean, I don't want to get too, but
we'll bring this up in our one-on-one,
but you you you mentioned to me right
before the podcast. I was like, "What
about the
>> 40 meter long tic tac shaped object in
the labyrinth and underneath Hara?" And
you were like, "That was only written
about in a blog post." And I to be
honest, I'm a fan of Ben Van Kirkwick.
cuz that was the first time I had heard
and he was kind of pouring a little cold
water on your stuff as if that was less
tested than a tic tac shaped object. But
>> it feels more legit to me if that's from
a blog post.
>> It's been interesting to see the
reaction of the community
>> and people on cuz we're all in this
community of alternative ancient
history.
>> Yeah.
>> And the reaction of some people again
has been complete rejection immediately.
Some people love it. 100% no objections,
but there's nobody that's really taking
a middle ground on this and asking
honest objective questions. It's like
that's I'm kind of honored to be in the
position to be here to have this
conversation because I've invested a lot
of time.
>> Yeah.
>> In trying to understand this.
>> I've read the papers. I've looked at the
conventional scanning stuff. I've
investigated the Muon data. And this is
super important to my overall work is
making sure that we really understand
what's going on here. Love it.
>> Let's keep going.
>> It's just been weird to see the
reactions of people in the community
where you're they're either debunking it
or they're on board 100%. And there's
nobody that's really
>> well it's just ego. You like your
identity gets wrapped up in a position
and then you pre- crystallize knowledge
and it it you you end up engaging in bad
thinking instead of being like, "Oh,
damn. I don't want that to be true, but
it just the facts seem like it's true,
you know. And
>> if I can Yes. If I can add something
constructively,
>> I may say this.
If a mutual collaboration between
the scam pyramid project and maybe our
research team will be possible, I think
things will go better. So muons plus
a mass star tomography plus mass muon
maybe things will be better.
>> Sure. Sure.
>> Well I think it would also be a way
because muons are more tried and true
and accepted in a conventional
scientific sense that for them that
would be like oh this pattern matches
you know like what we are deriving from
the muan detection. I think where it
gets tough is, you know, trying to get a
kilometer deep with the muhans. I think
that's
>> But once Yes, it's Yes, that's true.
Because you have to go one kilome deep.
>> Yeah. You can't do that. Loc, install
the detector and then you see what there
is.
>> Yeah. And for that you need the Ministry
of Culture to let you go down there and
do that
>> with a collaboration, not the
separation, a collaboration. So I work
with you, you work with me. We share
what we have. And we share our knowledge
and our gaps.
>> Love it.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> And so sharing knowledge and gaps, I
think things will work better,
>> right?
>> In my personal opinion,
>> yeah. So, so my next question here and
as we'll see in just a moment, the S
team has detected some features that go
around the king's chamber.
>> Filipo, you
>> So that is the king's chamber.
>> Yeah. Here a
>> They say that A is the king's chamber.
>> Correct. Okay.
>> And as I'll show you, you know what I'm
talking about. The features that go
around the king's chamber.
>> So, why do you think that they haven't
shown that
>> when you're picking it up on your data?
And I'll I'll fast forward a little bit
here. This 3D diagram.
>> Yes.
>> So, here is the big void.
>> You're showing it more transverse.
>> Transverse like that. Yes.
>> They're depecting as more longitudinal.
Their their scans show it north to
south.
>> Yours is showing it east to west.
>> And you're detecting these features that
are possibly connected into the big void
that go around
>> Yes.
>> the king's chamber. This is the king's
chamber here at the center.
>> You said the king.
>> The top of the king's chamber. The top
of the king.
>> Correct. Yeah. And then
>> Okay. So,
>> and then you have this feature here.
>> Yeah. We can also overlap the results of
the moon with the that right. Yeah. We
can put it correct one on.
>> So my question is
>> why is nothing like that shown here when
you are detecting it on your data? Uh I
don't know why because they are not able
to detect things Jeffrey in that
results.
I'm a scientist so I am very used to
read the mess
>> information inside things that there I'm
I'm seeing nothing there.
>> Can I can I ask it differently?
>> I'm sorry. Yeah, but I I I'm I'm a No, I
agree. I don't This is This is very
difficult to read. Can I ask it
differently? Are are there other
examples of things where muan detection
fell short as far as predicting a
structure uh that we know existed? We
know the structure existed. Muons fell
short.
>> There's another comparison coming up
here in just a moment of the scan
results where it's not showing something
that the S team. So again, there's there
hasn't been much competition in the
archaeological space where we're
comparing these different technologies.
So now we're in a unique position where
there is a competitor technology to the
muon scanning where we're saying okay
this is showing this this isn't showing
it sometimes this you know so there's
this
>> but I mean in any archaeological or
scientific context like cuz that would
be really helpful because if it's like
muons never miss then I'm like okay you
got a false positive on the sard doppler
demography if it's like but there are a
few times where muons do miss in these
other cases I do think that's
illustrated
>> yeah yeah And and again, I would love to
see some control. Yeah. So, we have
king's chamber here, and I can move the
>> Oh, that's the king's chamber.
>> King's This is the king's chamber. A
>> and this is the grand gallery here. And
what Filipo's team is detecting is a
structure that goes around the king's
chamber here. And but I think as I saw
in in those results in these horizontal
pictures more pictures which I repeat is
the sum of all the horizontal layers
that I tell here publicly the research
team of moon team there is a method to
discriminate different liars
>> right they are not applying
>> to pull slices they're just looking at
the composite image
>> the sum the composite Correct. You can
you can do it.
>> Okay.
>> They can do it.
>> Maybe I can move.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Go for it.
>> Go.
>> So this
this is the top of the zed.
>> Correct.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. So it's looking down at the top of
the pyramid. Correct.
>> Okay. This is the let's say is the
king's chamber.
>> Correct. A is the king's chamber in the
these images. Yeah.
>> Then this is something related to the
granary.
>> Correct. B. The arrow pointing to B is
the Grand Gallery. Correct.
>> On the other hand, they they are
detecting the queens the the the the
king's chamber
>> on another view angle which is yes.
>> OB obviously B this is the grand.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. So we have two different view
angles. This geometry and this geometry.
Very good. And also other geometries.
this and also this. The important thing
that I am observing that here you have
two things. This and this.
>> Yeah, that's that's the new void.
>> Wait.
>> Yeah.
>> And this.
>> Yep.
>> Here you have only this.
Why? Here you have only this and here
you have this and this. Which is the
difference?
Because the orientation seems similar.
Why
>> there's written on the paper?
>> Yes.
>> Why?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Here.
>> Because I tell you what is uh they are
confusing something that
>> So here here are the explanations of the
positioning.
Okay.
>> And this this breaks down the whole
graph and then here on this side are
sort of the uh
>> but yes the reflectivity. Okay. Yeah.
Can we go to the previous slide please?
Uh Jeffrey. Okay.
It can be that this is the grand gallery
top roof and this is the grand gallery
floor and they are in Italy we say
>> taking cuts contrabasi
>> no
>> t taking what do you mean
>> no no don't say taking
>> no don't say it don't say it
>> taking
things to other things they are
confusing
>> ah
>> it is possible that this is the floor of
the Grand Gallery because are parallel
same shape and this is the roof of the
of the Grand Gallery because it's very
high the Grand Gallery.
>> Sure.
>> Of of course yes in my personal opinion
and look Jeffrey
this is the Grand Gallery. this because
it it has a shape a rectangular shape
maybe maybe look this or this they have
to do other measurements
this is not the grand gallery this is
the top roof and the and the bottom of
the same structure so the grand gallery
>> okay so
>> so are you saying they might have
misinterpreted yes there was absolutely
interesting that's fascinating well
sometimes
>> why I have to build a big void parallel.
They say the big void is parallel to the
gangari. Why? Why I have to go I I have
to I have to I have to build an inclined
uh so-called big void and we are
detecting the big void where they are
detecting the real big void.
>> So let me clarify.
>> Yes,
>> their results are suggesting that the
big void is not parallel but it's
directly above. You see this area with
the positive? So this is where they're
picking up the signature of the big boy
>> interpretating the the the
photoggramometry that that they are
doing.
>> So that's why I included this is because
I wanted to get your opinion
>> on these results and compare them again.
what what he's showing on his team is an
east to west transverse big void
>> that's located more down here
>> and and parallel because the the the
floor and the roof are parallel like
that.
>> What the what the Muan team is
suggesting that the big void is here
>> and inclined
>> directly above with the same angle as
the grand gallery. They basically
described it as a copy
>> of the Grand Gallery directly above it.
>> So there's just a difference between
these two things
>> and and we haven't verified in either.
>> The the only way to figure it out is to
go in there.
>> Yeah. which they're going to do and
we're going to see exactly what's what
hopefully in 2026
>> because because if you go in there and
you figure out who's right muon or sard
doppler tomography that lends a lot of
credence to the substructure readings of
sard dollar tomography if you find a
positive result
>> sure
>> now the thing is the Egyptian ministry
of antiquities
>> believes in this so much
>> that they are willing to do the excav
excavations based on this data. So to me
that is staggering.
>> What's your take?
>> Because when I look at this I have the
same reaction as Filippo. Oh really?
>> Is how how could you possibly say with
any certainty that what you're detecting
here is real bas you know it's the same
argument how how big is the community of
experts that know how to read mu.
>> Well that's the whole thing too right?
That's why we're having a conversation
with an expert because the community in
ancient alternative history,
>> we are not experts in radar. My question
is when it comes to reading muon scans,
uh, that seems like a expertise or
specialty. Have you been have you read a
lot of these and are you good at that?
Or are are there people out there that
are good at that? You're just basing
their misinterpretation off your result.
>> Yes. I in this moment is the first time
thanks to Jeffrey that explaining me how
to read the data.
>> Okay. Okay. I got it.
>> So we are in front of of results based
on these results they are doing ex
drilling. they are fight.
>> Should we should we show this to
somebody who's read a lot of Muan scans
and be like
>> so I will say that in the paper like you
guys did they also presented all of the
mathematical analysis of the data
detection but I didn't put that in here
because it's it's way beyond any of our
>> but
is a question of u of ge of geometry.
Uh please uh please please look
>> if you watch the dimension of the king's
chamber and the top of the Z a so the
distance the horizontal distance of that
>> so these things should actually
connecting you know this should be
connected into this
>> so so that's an that's an error
>> well it also depends on again like he's
saying it's a composite of horizontal
layers
>> right
>> the only part of the grand gallery
that connects into the king's chamber is
on the top layer.
>> As you go down in the structure, the
integration between the king's chamber,
anti-chamber, and grand gallery, there
is no more connection between the two.
So basically what Filippo is pointing at
here is this signature and this
signature here. And he's saying that
instead of this secondary signature
being reflective of a new chamber, it's
actually part of the Grand Gallery.
That's the
>> where where this is the top of the
chamber and this is the lower portion of
the chamber.
>> Okay.
>> Got it. Yeah.
>> Okay. So I I just I wanted to show what
the existing technology was
>> so that the lay person can see the
difference between the two what the data
looks like and see how much of a it's a
difficult process to understand what is
going on with any of this stuff
>> if you are not an expert in that
particular scanning technology. Well, we
should send this to people who are good
at reading Muan scans, but what you're
saying, Jeff, we know that they do get
that disconnection wrong, that little
point. We know for sure.
>> Well, again, as as Filippo said, it
could be a byproduct. The same way with
S technology
where where it doesn't pick up all of
the chambers because of the particular
slice, right? This may not be vertical
slices but horizontal layers where
they're not picking the layer where the
sum the vertical sum of all the layers.
>> So it should have it if it's a sum of
top to bottom it should integrate all of
that into one and it should show that
cuz the king's chamber connects into the
anti-chamber which connects into the top
of the grand gallery. So if this is
actually and you can kind of see it
here. So, so why are they missing that
ant?
>> So, so let me let me show it here. So,
here they actually do kind of show you
could see what would be the anti-chamber
here.
>> Yeah.
>> The king's chamber here and this is the
grand gallery.
>> This would be the anti-chamber and this
is the king's chamber. And that's
accurate to the configuration. So, in
this one they actually do show
>> where is the big void there.
>> So, this doesn't show necessarily the
big void to me. It's not visible in this
image
>> but uh
>> this is the mathematical detection of it
here.
>> It is possible to read results of the
analysis of shintilation. It is another
scintillation.
>> So this explanation down at the bottom
gets way deep into the technical weeds
where
it would take a in-depth discussion with
an expert to understand what's
>> simulated data. No, no. Those are
simulated data. Simulated data.
>> Simulated data.
>> No, no, no. Simulated data are similar
data. It's not real. It's a simulated is
a simulation that simulated data.
>> So, you're saying this is a simulation.
So, it says simulation real corrected
image.
>> See, it's not real. The real one is the
we have that that
>> right.
>> Yeah. So is there a process like you
said with your data of focusing?
So is that what they're doing here is
focusing and correcting the image?
>> That's a
numbers are synthetic numbers are not
real measurements.
>> Okay.
>> So it's not real.
>> It's just to to show the the processing
that are doing. It's not real data.
>> Okay. And again, there's I only picked
the data images for this presentation
because I just wanted to compare and
contrast the raw data from your team in
comparison to the raw data from the Muan
team.
>> Who knows which one of these is right?
And again, we're having a conversation
with an expert on S technology. The next
person we should have in this round
table is an expert on muon technology so
that we could all understand exactly
what's going on.
>> Yeah. Not like friendly. If he was today
now here, maybe we could explain one to
each other our results.
>> And I I do have the whole paper, but I
would have to close this and then it
would be a huge tangent for us to look
at the math
>> presented in the paper. So there's a
whole paper about this. If anybody wants
to do a deep dive into Muan technology,
they wrote a deep paper the same as with
your first paper that includes all the
mathematics in the scan processing. So
to TLDDR here is that you have some
exactly discrepancies between the muon
reading and the Sard Doppler tomography
reading and uh in some definitely tried
and true method muon detection in in
many cases and then at least in the case
of that one kind of culde-sac shaft we
you know tried and true as well. So my
only point with this is from the
perspective of the Egyptian Ministry of
Antiquities, which is the sanctioned
body for investigating the structures,
>> they used this to find the shaft that we
just saw that your team also found. And
they're using this data to justify the
excavations into the Big Void. So this
is one of the first times that they're
going to do a major excavation into the
Great Pyramid. So there's only been a
few other instances where they've
actually drilled into the structure. So
that's a major project to be approved by
the Ministry of Antiquities. They don't
do that lightly, right? It's a big
decision when they decide to excavate
into the structure. So they do believe
in this enough for them to justify this
project. But again, who can make sense
of what's what on either one of these
things? You really have to have an
expert Allah Filippo here or an expert
on the Muan technology to really explain
exactly what's going on.
>> Yep.
>> So, next I really want to get to the
because again this could turn into a
six-hour long discussion and we'll be
here for the rest of the night.
>> No, we we move it fast. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I can skip through this.
The reason I wanted to show this section
of the paper is because the SAR team is
finding other structures like tag one
here on the right is the data shown in
tag one here in the model. So this
feature here that goes down into the
bedrock.
>> Yes.
>> Then there's this step like feature
here.
>> Probably probably
>> again. Yeah. So, so they're interpreting
this data over here on the right.
>> Mhm.
>> Into a model to show their
interpretation of what this signature
actually is.
>> Yeah.
>> So, that's all I'm trying to show here
>> is the presentation and the development
of the model itself. Y
>> So, you'll see these different tags, tag
one, tag seven, and tag four. Tag seven
is this transverse east to west beam
like feature and then you have these
step-like features here. Um I actually
proposed in my video a while back in
2021.
So there have been researchers that have
proposed that there was a system of
locks, hydraulic locks that were used to
move blocks up into the pyramids. So an
interesting interpretation for some of
these features could be construction
related features that are still encased
in the body of the pyramid that are
remnants of the construction process
like water locks where they were using
water locks to float these stones on
rafts up into the pyramid body. So
again, it's it's important for any
researcher who's analyzing these things
to be able to have an interpretation of
the function. That's kind of my job in
this investigation is when I see stuff
like this, I either have to assess it
from the perspective of the operation of
the structure or possible vestigages of
the construction process. And it would
make sense even if it was like the
internal ramp for example, you would
have remnants of that internal ramp
inside of the structure. If it was water
locks, you would also have remnants of
the vestigages of the water lock system
encased in the final structure. So this
is just showing some of the things that
the S team discovered inside of the
Great Pyramid that are new undiscovered
features.
>> Okay.
>> So we have data on the right and model
on the left.
>> Okay.
>> Again, this is just going through
showing these linear features here.
>> Yes.
>> And the different tags that are
represented in the model here. So tag
number two is the feature on the other
side. So you have one here and then two
over here.
>> Okay.
>> Same thing.
>> Ah yeah. Yeah. This you see it very
well.
>> Yeah. Here we go into some more where
>> there the grand gallery. You see it
>> here. Yeah. Yeah. So I was going to
point that out here. So this is the
grand gallery
>> and you see also the that the the
superior part of the grand gallery
that
you go up there there are futures that
are connected to do the king's chamber.
No
>> the anti chamber. Yeah the anti chamber
here.
>> This is very clear. You see it?
>> Yeah. So again, this is I'm just showing
to everybody who hasn't seen this yet
the raw data
>> on the right and the extrapolation
of the raw data into the 3D model.
>> Yeah.
>> So they're just interpreting the
features that they see here into this
model.
>> Can I ask you a question?
>> Yes. Do any of these structures that
they're interpreting from the raw data
fly in the face of what conventional
archaeology would think exists inside
the pyramid?
>> All of it. All of it.
>> All of it.
>> Okay.
>> All of this is the only known vetted
chambers of the Great Pyramid.
>> King's Chamber, Queen's Chamber, Grand
Gallery, and Subterranean Chamber. You
have four chambers connected by a system
of shafts. We're obviously gonna get way
deeper into um your theory in our solo
episode, but
>> does any of this comport with the
functionality that you think that
>> I've integrated all of this into a
functional hypothesis? So, I have
Filipo, I've entertained all of these
speculative features in a model of my
hypothesis for how the structure works.
Okay? For example, the heat exchanger
system that goes around the king's
chamber and above the grand gallery, the
extraction shaft connected into the
queen's chamber, which is that shaft
leading out of it. And I also have a
hypothesis for how these, again, I have
a number of different interpretations
for what these vertical features below
the pyramids might be. I've not publicly
yet, but I do have an interpretation on
what those could be. Reason I haven't
come out publicly yet is because I think
there's still more investigation that
needs to be done to verify the
configuration of the structure.
>> So again
>> we have more
>> yes there uh it is a bit confusing that
>> it's very confusing. Some of the basic
confusion around the pyramids it's
perennial debate and question is how
they were built.
>> Sure. And you have people like I think
Jean Pierre Houdin and France who say
that there's something about like you
know internally like the blocks get
pulled up or something. Could any of
these structures deal with how the
pyramid was constructed?
>> Well that's what I was saying is that so
a pulley or something
>> for example in the in the model
>> you know these could be remnants or
vestigages of a water lock system
>> that were used to move blocks up into
the pyramid.
>> Interesting. It it certainly could be.
Um my only issue with this
>> is the extrapolation from the data into
the model.
>> Yeah, sure. That is uh um uh things that
we discussed previously.
Those are two tomographic lines. No, if
if we had the chance the chance to see
the video belonging to Tomographic
lines, things could be perfect because
you are watching something dynamically
and you recognize very well the
structures.
>> So for example,
>> in this one on the top right,
>> yeah,
>> there's so much going on with this over
here.
>> A lot of uh false alarm. Yes. False
alarms.
>> I'm aware that
>> where you have false alarm but it is
only one. You have other others
>> right? Yeah. So so we you agree that in
all of this raw data it's very difficult
to say with any certainty
>> based on all of the interference and
background data that the model itself so
the data is clearly picking up
something. Yeah,
>> it's difficult for me to be on board
with the model given what I can see in
here.
>> What would you say to that FIPO is the
level of intricacy given the fact you
want to go back one slide?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Just just g given like how in detail and
intricate the model is the 3D model that
you guys have derived and then also
given what you just said which is
there's a lot of noise in the raw
reading. Do do you really think you can
stand behind that 3D model? Yes,
>> absolutely. Yes.
>> Why? And why is that?
>> 100%.
>> Wow.
>> Because we we have uh interpreted
really a lot of results.
>> Okay.
>> On a all on a table.
>> So,
>> me and Colorado.
>> So, you're basically saying you're like
a pro at removing the noise like you
know what's you can delineate the noise
because you said there's a lot of noise
here. Um it's not is not there is not
there is a so-called striped vertical
strip noise and we have remove it now in
the new tomography that kind of noise so
>> there is not any more present
>> well then to me it's like the muon scans
I'm like I don't know either one right
you could be looking at looking at both
of them and I think Filippo's point
about a synergy between the two
technologies where you're merging the
two techniques is probably the best
course of action for really getting
closer to the truth.
>> Yes. Because you are detecting things
and then you use another method another
a complete other method to to try and
detect the same thing.
>> Yeah. So, so for example, Filippo, you
said that the scan happens once and it's
15 seconds and inside of the structure
>> there are going to be micro vibrations
that are happening just based on the
geology and the the you know seismic
movements or anything. So, is it
possible that some of these detections
of micro movements are simply the nature
of the structure itself where it's going
to pick up something inside of the
structure that's producing these micro
movements?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, so these these images aren't
necessarily even background noise, but
it could be just foundational elements
of the pyramid with tiny little shifts
of the block or the slight movement of
the earth producing these micro
vibrations that are producing a
signature that's picked up on the
surface. So it's the difficult thing and
this is his job because he's the expert
is differentiating between background
noise, normal vibrations within the
structure and actual chambers. So that's
critical in really understanding this
data is the differentiation between each
and trying to separate out which is
which.
>> And but you feel you feel confident in
your ability to differentiate. I have to
say this also everything we put that we
we insert in the 3D model
we we analyzed a lot of results so we
are I'm I can't say sure but very
confident that
probably things that we insert in the 3D
model are the reality are effective
uh there.
>> Okay.
>> So, let's go to the final 3D model.
>> Yeah.
>> Which we have. So, this is another good
one.
>> I know. Look how nice.
>> So, again, this this is the queen's
chamber here.
>> And we have the shaft coming out of the
queen's chamber.
>> Look that the red signature here
>> and also below the below there is
something
>> here.
>> Yes. Or here.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
So again, it's he's the expert in
interpreting what the actual data is
showing and this is the model that
they've created from this perspective.
>> Can I just say that the 3D model looks
absolutely wild like it looks like a an
advanced contraption. It does not look
like uh you know something that would we
would normally associate with being
built
>> you know he's in a storm
>> 4,000 years ago let alone you know
10,000 years ago.
>> Yeah. Yeah,
>> it's crazy.
>> So, the model is wild.
>> Wild.
>> And I again, my only caveat to the model
is like
>> I don't see how you get to the model
from the data.
>> Yeah.
>> But it's your job as the creator of the
software and the developer of the
project to take the raw data and turn it
into something that the people can
understand because
>> only one with a c can I ask you a
question? When you measured the Grand
Sasso laboratory,
>> go back to that other image. Are you
getting that level of granularity with
it? Are you getting these instruments
and all that stuff? When you see the
Grand Sasa Laboratory, are you getting
>> that level of when I say granularity,
that level of specificity?
>> I tell you, yes.
>> Really? So, I I want to show you, and
this is an important part of the
conversation.
>> Yeah.
>> The proof of concept. So
it's nice but we also have like tons of
mess this all in here.
>> Why? Because I have to integrate also in
the in the
vertical dimension of this tomogram. If
I integrate
like that,
>> yes,
>> I I will have uh absolutely less false
alarms. But they are not false alarms.
They are true alarms because the the
soil the the ground
it is a mess. So you the the result is
the reality. Okay. So because why? Uh
because um the sound does not propagate
into the free space but only but it it
is propagating inside the matter and the
matter is complicated. So look, you have
the uh that mess that I don't know if I
>> No, no, no. I I understand. Um but again
from a from a person who
my entire body of work and anybody who's
interested in the function of the
Egyptian pyramids
>> if there is a new novel approach to
detecting internal chambers
>> we want to see consistency of the
detection of the known structures which
in here we do have a great signature.
>> Yeah.
>> Down here.
>> Yes.
>> Mhm. The Queen's Chamber in this one
doesn't have a great signature.
>> Okay.
>> We have background
data here.
>> That's a problem of the layover of the
of of the R. Yes, that's a problem.
>> It's it's obscuring the view of any
signature from the King's Chamber or the
Grand Gallery.
>> But I guess Filippo, would you know that
that's a problem from the layover of the
technique? Would you know that if you
didn't know the structure? Would you be
able to say
>> that's the Leo? Yes.
>> Really? You say that that the pattern
matches that's obvious.
>> I know very well the Okay. Yeah, fair
enough.
>> If I have a report, that's the layover
and then those are real structures.
>> And then the queen's chamber like in
other cases.
>> You don't have only one but you have a
plethor of results. So you are able to
track into the theographic dimension the
uh different targets. And you're sure
you just missed the queen's chamber
because it was too small?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. And you've missed
>> it is small but in that particular slice
you don't have it
>> because you you maybe I don't remember
now this case but because we we did a
lot of I don't remember the case but
probably
>> we we did not align the demographic
slice on the on the on the quid stream.
Okay.
>> That's good.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and again, what I found
really compelling about this one is the
signature of this tag here.
>> Ah, yes.
>> Going down from from the queen's chamber
>> down here into tag 15 which is
represented by this blue line here.
>> Yeah. This that is in that is interest.
>> So this has again been reported in the
archaeological excavation that there
there is something like this below the
queen's chamber.
>> And did you know it's it's covered up
now. Filippo, did you have any context
on that in the historical record before
you made this measurement?
>> That's really crazy. That's pretty cool.
So that again, you know, again, I I have
some
>> No, I'm I am listening this this story.
>> So there's there's some there's some
positive
>> there's some positive things about it
and there's also some questions and some
negatives where we don't get a
conclusive answer. So my objective with
this is try to parse through what we can
see and what we can't see to try to make
a conclusive determination about what
structures are actually there. And this
is an instance where the anecdotal
archaeological reports substantiate the
idea of there being a shaft and chamber
system below the queen's chamber which
is certainly looks like there is
something coming down from the queen's
chamber here. So this is again when I
initially looked at this paper four or
five years ago, this was the part that I
found most compelling, the the shaft
system below the queen's chamber. So now
I think we can move on. Um this was
another interesting one for both.
>> This is interesting.
>> Yeah. So we were talking about this here
and I know this,
>> right? So this large don't care about
that.
>> So you don't Well, let me ask a question
real quick.
>> This is the Z. Look how nice it is.
>> Sure.
>> So this is the Z. Look. And this is the
Grand.
>> Yeah. This I like it a lot. I like a lot
this thing here.
Uh this is the Z. It is very clear. Look
how nice it is.
These are not simulated data are real
data. This is the grand gallery and
probably we are detecting I I don't know
if we are detecting also the big void
but some somewhere here has to be but
maybe in this tomographic line we don't
see it but we see clear very very nicely
the grand gallery that is this and the
zed and also the struct the square
structure that is surrounding the zed
which is this look Brook Jeffrey this.
>> Yeah. Yeah. There's there's the slide of
that in the next one.
>> Yeah.
>> And um the grand gallery is here like
that. We should see also the big void.
But I have to retrive the original
tomography the high resolution. But here
we are not seeing the big void.
>> So you have it labeled there at tag 19.
>> Yeah.
>> So in this one
>> big void. Yes.
>> You have it labeled over there.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes, I'm sorry. Uh, thank
you, Jeff. Thank you for this.
>> Um,
>> this help.
>> So,
>> are my results, but I did it six years
ago. No, so I don't remember exactly the
how it how we managed to.
>> So, my question about this one was this
signature.
>> No, it's
something related to to synthetic. So,
it's my job.
>> But,
>> okay.
>> Do you think so? We know that the
pyramid
>> is built on a mound of bedrock.
>> No, that's not
>> Could this possibly be a signature of
the bedrock?
>> No, that's the sign signature of the
layover.
>> Okay.
>> So, it is something that uh the the the
radar returns is so strong that you
retrive uh you retrive that signature
also in the vibrations. Okay.
It is something. It is something that I
I I can explain it to you uh
scientifically. Yeah. If you want, but
>> No, no. I just I just I I need
something.
>> There wasn't any explanation for what
this was in the paper. So I wanted to
ask you
>> an aberration due by layover is well
known to me.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. But inside the aberration inside
things you can see very clear the the um
the grand gallery the zed and other
facilities and also the big void tag 19
here.
>> Yeah. Okay. That's a panoramic view of
what we are uh dealing. Look there. We
just need I think you Filippo to create
known standard conventions for what is
layover noise and what is you know empty
space and what is you know physical
material of XYZ density. I think all of
that needs to be laid out in some sort
of taxonomy by you
>> so that the open scientific community
can kind of corroborate and check your
work.
>> Yes. But I thank Jeffrey that
invite and you also uh Jesse and Jeffrey
you invite me here and we are and I am g
giving you additional explanation of of
our technique. Okay.
>> Yeah. So today we spoke about the
incidence angle how to see deeper how to
see only the pyramid the layover. No
that's because of the layover. Okay,
it's a false alarm, but we know it. It's
there. Okay, we don't consider it
>> because we are rather experts. Okay,
it's it's not.
>> Would an average radar expert be able to
tell between layover and you know
>> an average rather expert, yes, can
distinguish the the layover and the for
shortening and the shadowing that are
the three main issues of radar. But uh
in the Doppler tomography domain, you
have to connect these things and so read
it
>> read this problem.
>> So you have to create new like
conventions for kind of digesting this
stuff and processing it.
>> So I just wanted to show these last
diagrams, the final diagrams.
>> So the top view of the big void
>> connected into this square structure
around the king's chamber. I suggest you
to grab this image and overlap
overlap this image on the moon
scanning results.
>> Yeah,
>> do it and then let me know. You will see
also the big void like that.
>> Interesting. So again, the the the
comparison of what we were looking at is
that they're showing it's a north to
south orientation.
>> Yeah. Here he's showing it as a more of
an east to west orientation connected
into these other structures around the
king's chamber.
>> Okay.
>> Then we have kind of the final
schematic.
>> Very good. Look you you see
>> with measurements
>> with measurements.
>> So they they took
>> now you you you are.
>> So what they did here is they took the
data
>> and they measured all of the data.
>> Yeah. And they interpreted the specific
measurements of the signatures that were
received by the radar.
>> And they incorporated the measurements
and all of the unique features into a
complete model that incorporates all of
the new features. So we have the big
void here. We have this
chamber system and shaft system that
goes around the king's chamber here. We
have this shaft system below the queen's
chamber. and a possible connection point
as Filippo mentioned between the newly
discovered feature on the northern face
that connects into the Grand Gallery. So
this is a complete reconstruction
including measurements that were taken
from the raw data and put into the
model.
>> Yes.
>> So now let's go
>> okay
>> to the new paper.
>> New the new paper. the new paper we
established a foundation of the first
paper
>> and I think have done probably an overly
indepth analysis
>> but I think it's important that we have
the discussion so there there's one
there's one main question I have about
the new paper at this point everybody's
already I'm going to assume everyone's
already seen the raw data images so
we're gonna this is the scanning
>> of the kafra pyramid the central pyramid
>> and this is the data that they are
showing
of potential new structures located
above the existing chambers inside of
the central pyramid.
>> Yes.
>> And I'll I'll show you a diagram here in
a moment that compares the known
chambers to what we have here.
>> And this is their reconstruction of
these vertical pillars. I know
everybody's seen that at this point.
>> Yeah.
>> So, let's get to the proof of concepts.
>> Mhm.
>> That were presented during the Malta
conference.
>> Yeah. So these were scans of modern
structures that are intended as proof of
concept
>> that this technology can read the micro
vibration surface signatures of internal
structures.
>> Yes. The in terms of signal processing
information you penetrate.
>> Yeah. So my main question so we here we
have the Carlin tunnel
>> and this is the scan.
>> The scan look.
>> Okay. So, Filippo,
>> can you explain?
>> Yeah.
>> So, the qualitative
image here.
>> Same thing with the Grand Sasso.
>> Yeah.
>> This is the raw the processed data
showing
>> the tunnel here.
>> These are all the scaring
>> and this is the the grand sasso the
physics laboratory. So here here we have
the configuration of the laboratory and
here on the left
>> is the
>> real measurement data.
>> Yeah.
>> Real and not simulated real.
>> Right. Okay.
>> Okay.
>> Can you explain why this
>> Yes.
>> looks completely different from this?
>> What is the difference between what is
going on here
>> in the proof of concept?
>> This is a signal processing procedure.
uh there uh we are uh dealing with
something let's called wide in a wide
area the gas so big
>> wide array
>> yeah
and uh the focusing procedure of the
phonons are different so we use
something different that we can see bide
I can say you the details but the
details are that there
The focusing process is done to see okay
I want to see wider okay focus wider
and there we are observing the grandaso
because it's big the grandas it's big
>> okay so what is the footprint again
>> so we said that when you were scanning
the pyramids
>> you have a 5k by 5 km footprint area of
the scan
>> the footprint of potential tomographic
lights Okay. If you want to scan
theographic line, you put it on the
>> Sure. Sure. When you scan the Grand
Sasso,
>> is it the same 5 km by 5 km?
>> The same.
>> So, it's the same footprint.
>> Yes.
>> If the
focusing technique,
>> yeah,
>> for this scan,
>> produced this quality of an image.
>> Yes.
Why are we using this? Yeah.
>> To image inside of the pyramid. Can you
explain the technical reason? Yes. Why?
Because I thought the these were not
inside the pyramid under the pyramid.
>> Well, both.
>> Okay.
>> Right. So, this is a scan of what's
inside of the pyramid.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And this is a completely different type
of signature
>> than what is shown here. It's a good
question because
>> So, there's a very big difference
between these two things.
>> Y. So can you explain what the
difference is between the process and
the end result?
>> The first thing is this that this is
black and white look
and the other one is another kind of
colors you see red and blue red and
blue.
>> So it is a a different representation.
So again we have here the tunnel
>> blue look blue white blue okay and there
you see is red and blue
>> in the case of the grand saso I used a
different processing technique it was
like an experiment why here I am seeing
it in a different color because here I
attempt to do
different
process of different tomographic lines
like that because I wanted to mitigate
the noise in the in the vertical
direction of the tomographic line like
that.
So to average pixel by pixel the noise
and we see that the results the results
are very good.
>> Yes.
>> But I spent at least two months of
processing time.
>> Okay.
>> Why didn't you do the same thing? I that
that's why it's not something that you
can do it every day because I went to my
friend like can I can I use your
computers? Okay. Yes, but I can use his
computer forever. No,
>> but it sounds like that's a superior
technique.
>> Yeah.
>> So why would
>> It's a superior technique. Yes.
>> So why wouldn't you use that on the most
important finding?
>> Because I didn't have the computers. I
am poor.
>> Oh no.
>> I get you the computer instruments. I
have my use once. I am uh
>> but you have to understand how to to
like random person in the audience
they're thinking like Falippo why don't
you use your friend's computer because
better processing.
>> So for example this this proof of
concept
>> also wasn't presented in conjunction
with the original paper either.
>> So this is new from the Malta conference
which was in 2024.
>> Yes.
>> This proof of concept is newer compared
to their original scans in 2020. So to
me, this is far more convincing than
anything that we've seen thus far with
the original scans.
>> There is the the labor.
>> How much would it cost you to do the
equivalent of this? But for the coffer
pyramid substructure,
>> my project in the future is to do it
real time. I just I want to do it real
time.
>> How much would that cost you?
>> I don't know a lot.
>> Okay.
>> But I can't see you. I don't know. But
yeah, let's say millions.
>> How how much of the validation I do
think it's important because it it
you're saying that the processing was
slightly different here versus So when
you're citing this as validation, how
many of the other examples like the
Osiris shaft or other things
>> did you use this kind of more rapid
>> everything that you are that you have
black and white?
>> Yeah, I have all of them. Okay.
>> Right. So, so again it from my
perspective, somebody who is super
focused on discovering the true
configuration of these structures.
>> Yeah.
>> Why would we even publish the initial
results if the capability existed to do
something superior that could eliminate
all of the background noise and
confusion? So, in your first paper, you
made the statement transparent like a
crystal.
>> Yes. Those images from the first paper
are not transparent like a crystal.
>> I'm not I don't agree.
>> This is
>> this is transparent like a crystal. So
why would we not use this is good? This
is really good. I this is way better
Filippo and that's why this is like
super important. When I was watching
this in Malta, I didn't want to get into
too in-depth of a conver, but when I was
looking at this, I was like, this is
actually something that very much
resonates with me as a being a very
powerful technology.
>> What you showed in the first paper, the
differentiation between background noise
and layover and everything. paper
it the the word says the first paper it
is it was the initial uh of our
research. So
>> sure
>> going back in time six or seven we we
began two years before the the paper. So
in 200 18
nearly 10 years now eight years there.
So the software was the initial software
>> right
>> things with it resonates like a crystal
because it is transparent with noise.
>> When was the last an old crystal let's
say like an old crystal?
>> Yeah. Well, it's not a crystal. It's
limestone, right? Yeah. So, limestone is
not a crystal, but this the the
qualitative processed image of this is
very much transparent like a crystal. I
thought this was spectacular. And when
you're presenting this data to an
academic community that is going to be
extremely rigorously trying to tear this
apart,
>> the background noise, the layover, the
inability to detect certain structures
because of the tomographic line. I would
scrap all of that and go with this.
>> No, this is uh very nice. I like it. The
>> Let's get I mean, seriously, I mean,
this is going to drive me insane. Let's
see. This is why I wanted to show you
this.
>> Well, let let's let's get you
crowdfunded the money to so that you can
get this level of quality on the actual
coffer pyramid substructure.
>> Also better.
>> What's that?
>> Oh, let's get you better. Let's get you
better. But even this would be cuz I do
think there's an issue if you're like
you know all the validation looks like
that and then you know your reading on
the coffer pyramid looks like the way
you and and then it's like we have to
we're basically taking your word for it
and I my all my soft signaling is like
you're legit but like that's me. I'm one
person and like you know I also would
love for there to be like an energy grid
under the pyramid. So I think we need
this level on you know the actual coffee
and we will I it it
will be done.
>> Uhhuh.
>> It will be done.
>> Okay. Amazing. Soon.
>> Now we if we work in the right uh
procedure
we will establish a foundation and uh in
Malta there we will install the
computers and maybe we will do something
better also better than this.
And and hopefully today I wanted to give
you some feedback as a friend for ways
that you can improve the presentation to
the academic community because the
questions that I have are the reasons
that they have immediately rejected all
of the data because there's a lot of
questions.
>> But if you lead with this, there can be
less objections to the data. This I
thought was spectacular. When I saw this
in Malta, this really caught my
attention and it bothered me that you
went from this, which is transparent
like a crystal. I think this is
fantastic.
>> The the scan the scan of this structure
here, you can even see it here from far
away. You can see the triangular the
transverse tunnel. You can see the
mountain and you can see the inside of
the laboratory.
>> I Filippo, I love this. Yes,
>> this is the best proof of concept that
you have access to a technology that can
scan inside structures.
>> But then you go from this to this
>> and I was like, what is going on here?
There's a there's such a huge difference
between quality A and quality B that it
takes away from the credibility of this
and it's not an efficient proof of
concept. But uh I know I agree with your
um on what you are saying but
>> there are results uh you you we can't
see we can't say that are bad results.
So, I would love to see
>> Yeah.
>> do it with the new thing
>> because yeah, the I would love to see
that
>> the new thing is so easy to read for a
lay person that I do think it would just
help you your cause. And I I I'll defend
you here and say the fact that unless
you are fabricating that first image,
you're if you're using Sard Doppler
tomography to Jeffrey's point to
reconstruct the Grand Sassel Laboratory
in that image on that we saw on the
left. Yeah. Here.
>> That is a total proof of concept for the
actual like technique. That's amazing.
That's my point.
>> And then and then you need to do that
for the thing that's going viral that
everybody cares about.
>> Watching this.
>> Yeah. So, this was very good and that's
why I wanted to show this and that's why
>> and you see also the facilities
>> here. Yeah. Yeah. We can see the
facility here. The triangular and this
is where the intererometer is.
>> Oh, the intererometer is fantastic. Yes.
Yes. Okay. So, theometer is fantastic.
>> Another caveat on testing modern
structures as proof of concept.
>> These are operating systems. There's
electricity. There's moving components.
There's people, you know, they didn't
turn the lab off for him to scan this.
So there are inherent vibrations in a
modern operating facility that are
producing more readily readable
signatures.
>> Ventilators
>> in an ancient structure. There are no
moving parts.
>> The great pyramid is chambers. That's
it. There's no ventilators. There's no
electricity. There's no moving parts. So
my only issue with the proof of concept
using modern facilities is there are
actual active vibrations, mechanical
vibrations within the structure that are
producing more intense signatures.
>> Yes. But you have 1.4 kilometers.
Yeah. Right. Right. Um the the height of
the mountain is way bigger than a
pyramid.
>> That's a fair point and I I do think
that should be addressed. I think it's
at the margins compared to the larger
point which is that this technique looks
fundamentally different and yeah I think
uh Filippo you should definitely do the
structures underneath the coffer pyramid
but with this technique that you're
showing here and it's really important
for these you know you're giving fodder
to the skeptics you know if you if you
don't do this so we always say when you
present something new put your best foot
forward
because it helps to eliminate
objections,
>> but I can see your pride in this.
>> Yes.
>> And I felt the same way about it. I was
like, "Okay, this is this is cool." When
I saw this, I was like, "He's really
possibly on to something
>> but then we again moved on to the rest
of the presentation where he's showing
the new scans of the Kafra pyramid." So,
here's another one that's another proof
of concept of the Mosul Dam. And there
are some turbines, two different types
of turbines. There's a Kaplan turbine
and another circular
turbine like this.
>> Y.
>> So this was another proof of concept
where they scanned the Mosul dam,
>> but that's using the like raw data that
looks like the raw data
>> the secondary the inferior technology
>> which which which I think is that's a
good proof of concept then.
>> Yes. But uh I I have to crit criticize
this. Okay.
>> In the context of uh ancient megalytics
>> in this case the two beans are in
movement and they produce
>> that was going to be my point is that
these are
>> of energy in terms of
>> mechanical moving parts.
>> So of course there's going to be a proof
of concept. Yes. But is a block a pro a
proof of concept not applicable in
megalytics because there in megalytics
you need a lot of precision a lot of
sensitiv sensibility
>> and when you what what's the word you're
using mega
>> megalithic structure because these are
these are operating moving mechanical
components the dam is working right so
he's scanning an piece of machinery
>> you are but it's okay yeah
>> to to play devil's advocate if you one
slide back like uh go one again like
that looks like decent I I I can't read
you know sardig
slide to the right like that that looks
like decent to me that looks like it
>> so so let me show here what so this is
the configuration of the Kaplan turbine
>> and then this is the configuration of
the spiral turbine
>> and what we have here is the Kaplan
turbine and this is the Francis spiral
turbine
So it's
>> so my only question that would help
validate this is do you have an
engineering blueprint of the Mosul dam
>> that shows that there are these two
different types of turbines
>> they are confin
>> so you're
>> it's not possible to retrive the
>> that was my question is like this is
great and you're showing two different
types of turbines right next to each
other
>> but it's it's sufficient to to say that
there's a franchises and a couple is
sufficient. Uh Jeffrey, you can't have
the the effective
um design of the tobine
um ch you say the turbine area.
>> Sure.
>> Because
>> that's that's a valid point.
>> Very very difficult to have it.
>> Sure. Sure. But I was just my question
is do you have access to an engineering
blueprint that can corroborate this
configuration within the dam that would
just
>> I don't know I don't
>> enhance Yeah. No, it's okay. Yeah. I was
just curious if you did because that
would be even more evidence to show here
is just like we did with the diagrams of
the great pyramid. You could take the
engineering blueprint
>> speaking on something very simple to
obtain because
>> they are mechanically move moving and
also the thickness is very low the
>> in the dam
>> in the dam yes it's not I think 300 m
something like that is is very
>> so the three of us immediately latched
on to my entire point of that discussion
is that there's qualitatively
vastly superior technology being used
for the proof of concepts. The proof of
concepts are modern mechanically
operating structures that are very
different to imaging megalithic
structures where there are no moving
mechanical points. So
>> again I I was just when I saw this
>> can I say it slightly differently which
is
>> I don't know that it's qualit it looks
qualitatively better. The problem is in
Filippo's head it might actually not be
qualitatively better. It just looks to
it's it's it's qualitatively more
digestible, translatable, comprehensible
to
any average person because you get like
a better image for for a layman to read.
For all I know, if I'm inside his head,
he's thinking, I am just as confident
looking at those like what look like
thermal imaging blotches.
>> So, this is the final proof of concept,
the Gddard tunnel. Another tunnel.
>> Again, this is the tunnel. This is the
mountain range here.
>> So you can see the mountain range here
>> and the tunnel runs through here
>> and then there's another one that goes
underground here.
>> What is Goddard tunnel?
>> So it's just a tunnel through a mountain
in Switzerland.
>> Yeah.
>> I think 2 kilometers under the
>> right
>> so interesting
>> again and using the nomenclature from
the first paper transparent like a
crystal. This is what I would want to
see.
>> Yeah, it's beautiful.
>> And again it was just frustrating for me
when I was going through this. I really
don't.
>> Yeah. So, if you can if you can come to
the table with something like that,
>> I think that would silence a lot of the
haters. So, debunking is an attempt to
disprove.
>> So, when somebody is a debunker, they're
trying to say
>> S technology is fake because of X, Y,
and Z reasons. So, that's debunking. And
there's a lot of people that have
attempted to debunk this to say it's
fake. And then there's the other side
where people absolutely love it and they
really believe it. So that's what we
mean by debunking. And again, that's not
what I'm here to do. Clearly, I'm
interested and I'm fascinated by this
and I have a vested interest in knowing
the truth. Yeah. It's uh we should come
with a new term which is stress testing.
It's not debunking. It's, you know, if
there is a a there there, then you try
it under all conditions, constructively
stress testing in a positive way, which
I think we're doing here. So, yeah.
>> So, again, this is another image of the
tunnel.
>> Cool.
>> Going through here.
>> Wow.
>> Again, the reason I showed these is
because
>> anywhere.
>> Yeah. This is this is supposed to be the
proof of concept for the new scanning,
but it's it looks so much different
>> that
>> there's a contradiction between the
quality of this and then what is shown.
>> I know you I know you understand it.
>> Yeah, of course. Right. But but all of
us want to see this, especially the
people that don't believe in this
technology.
>> You you have to go back and do it again.
>> You do. You do. You do. and and and
seriously uh come up with a number and
like I I will rally Jeffrey will rally
everybody with a platform will rally to
just crowdfund you the money. Let's try
we'll get you we'll get you the money
somehow. I mean it's so important.
>> Yeah, cuz it's on you though to come up
with a number, come up with a figure and
we'll get you know it's it's it's really
important. So this is the rest of the
presentation is just going into their
presentation during Malta when they're
showing the new scans from inside the
Kafra pyramid.
>> You know, we already talked about the
azimuth compression. This is the scan of
the Osiris shaft.
>> Okay, so this was another proof of
concept scanning a known structure to
show that their technology is able to
pick up the configuration that we
absolutely know is there. But here we're
back to the kind of lower res uh correct
scans.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So that that that is you know good a
good sign of validation.
>> Yeah. So there's been
>> validation
>> there's been some issues proposed with
this. Okay.
>> So this is from a channel called Night
Scarab who did measurements that show
that the signatures
>> are off and that the measurements don't
exactly match the known configuration.
>> What do you say to that?
Well, because any any measurement is
affected by errors and aberration. You
remember that you are watching things
that is propagating in matter.
>> So,
>> so you're just saying this is within the
margin of error.
>> It's the best of uh what we can retrive
today.
>> Sure. But what not?
>> Yeah, of course
>> gods humans. Oh yeah measurements that
oh we have error
>> out of out of curiosity what is the
margin of error like
>> uh which kind of the the
>> so he was saying that the measurement I
think 4 meters 4 m of error
>> which considering you're measuring from
space using vibrations from underground
we are measuring is a relative you are
telling me you you made 4 meters of
error
>> does anybody argue that the structure
overall
doesn't comport with the Osiris shaft or
does everybody admit that it basically
>> so the only right so the only sort of
caveat to this scan
>> is this structure over here
>> okay
>> so I actually went out to the Giza
plateau after the Malta conference as
soon as we got back we live in Egypt so
I can go to the Giza plateau anytime
>> I think you found something no
>> yeah that's why I was asking you about
the footprint the square meter imaging
footprint the area of the That's that's
the the footprint is very good.
>> It's it's huge, right?
>> 5 km by 5 km is a huge footprint
>> and in the vicinity of the Osiris shaft.
So it's located along the causeway,
right? This connector pathway
>> that leads from the Cafrey eastern
temple down to the valley temple in
Sphinx.
>> And the Osiris shaft is located below
the causeway. M
>> so directly on top of the causeway maybe
10 to 15 ft away from the Osiris shaft
opening is another rectangular opening
in the causeway that is indicative of
another bedrock shaft. There's these big
vertical bedrock shafts all along the
causeway adjacent to the central
pyramid. They're just huge shafts that
go down into the bedrock. There is an
opening here at the top of the causeway
that goes down into something, but like
all of these bedrock shafts, they're
completely filled in. It's fil it's
filled in with sand and debris.
>> Debris. Yeah.
>> And then now we show the some shaft of
those that are making
>> later later in the the presentation.
>> There's also another structure to the
south of the causeway that appears to go
underground. That's again why I was
asking about the footprint of the area.
>> Is he measuring any of these?
>> Who?
>> Filippo in these scans.
>> Oh, in terms of the the measurements.
Yeah. Well, I don't know.
>> Okay. Cuz it would be interesting if
like you knew of something specific
around the Osiris shaft that he picked
up.
>> Well, that's what I'm saying is we went
out there and we found two different
structures.
>> Yeah.
>> In the vicinity of the Osiris shaft
>> that could be creating this signature
here.
>> Okay. Interesting. Interesting. So, we
actually went out, my wife and I. Shout
out to my wife Alexa from Archo Alchemy
that's been sitting over there patiently
watching watching this whole thing go
down.
>> An audience member live audience.
>> And this is why we need to go out
together. You, me, and Orando need to go
to Giza Plateau and look at this stuff.
So that I'm I'm so I know the Giza
Plateau like the back of my hand. And
anytime we want to look at a structure,
I know where there's anomalies and
things like that all over the Giza
Plateau that can help us get closer to
the truth of what we're looking at here.
So, I did find some structures that are
in the vicinity of the footprint of the
scan area that could be producing this
signature here on the left.
>> So, here on the right, we have level
one, level two, and level three.
>> Mhm. But then there's also these other
horizontal signatures that go all the
way down.
>> This one, this one, you know, all of
these different horizontal signatures.
>> We Filippo, you don't have a conclusive
explanation for what's producing this
section here.
>> I want to ask you a question.
>> Yes.
>> You know very well the structure of the
Osiris shaft.
>> Yep.
>> The last floor where you have the
swimming pool
>> here. Yes. Yes,
there there are some studies, some
research that attempt to go and see what
there is below the the water level.
>> Have they excavated below the water
level
>> or or I don't know, they put the camera
to see what or
>> No, no. As far as I know, the only
investigation into anomalies inside the
Osiris shaft
>> is some connecting tunnels.
>> Okay. There are some bedrock tunnels
that connect into the Osiris shaft.
During the original excavations, they
did pump all of the water out.
>> Oh, they that is impossible.
>> No, they did.
>> Ah, they did.
>> Yeah, they did a pump and they pumped
maybe not all of it, but they pumped the
water out of the Osiris shaft.
>> Yes.
>> And so the water level was going down.
>> Correct. And then but if they don't pump
any don't pump anymore
>> it comes right back up
>> in in how how much time?
>> Oh I don't know but so this was done by
Zahi Hawas and team.
>> They pumped all the water out so that
they could lift the lid off of the
container on the third level.
>> So there's a container on the third
level that's surrounded by four pillars.
It's like um a limestone island in the
middle of this water with this big
container. And they were going down in
this thing supposed to be the burial
shaft of Osiris. And they're going to
lift the lid off of this container and
find Feronic burial or Osiris's body in
here. Of course, absolutely nothing was
discovered when they lifted the lid of
this thing.
>> Wow.
>> So, they did pump the water out to do
this excavation. Then
>> after the excavation is done, the water
level came right back up because as I
was saying, there's a there's an
independent aquifer
directly below the structure here.
>> And the third level of the Osiris shaft
taps into the water level in this
independent aquifer. So everything that
we're showing here is underwater.
>> So nobody knows how deep is the water.
>> No. Oh my god.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> There's never been um a hydraological
investigation of the depth of the water
below the Osiris shaft.
>> Can I ask a question?
>> Yeah.
>> How big the the substructures under the
copper pyramid that you feel like you're
measuring uh these columns hollow
tubular structures. What is the
circumference?
>> Yes. I think I don't remember if we have
um indicated this but uh approximately
uh 20 m
>> each one
>> the the the diameter
>> but each the diameter of each sorry not
yes not circumference what is the
diameter
>> the diameter approximately 20 m
>> of each tube
>> yes and they are this and they are about
5 m
>> so each tube is 60 ft
>> uh 20 m I don't Yeah. I mean that to me
that makes me higher conviction I have
to say cuz I you know if you're not
measuring the queen's chamber because of
some granite you know and it's too small
or whatever you know I guess the granite
actually helps as far as Yeah.
>> So if you're not measuring the queen's
chamber because it's too small you know
and then you have this possible you know
error margin here displayed in the
Osiris shaft that's four meters.
>> Yeah. I do think if you have a 20 meter
single column and then that's repeating
four four plus four you know eight times
>> that somehow feels like the only thing
if I were in his position I could say
pretty confidently you know and again we
have to get into like can you penetrate
below
>> so let's get to that because I I have a
pressing question that I'd like for you
to answer yeah so every everyone's seen
>> so this is some of the raw data
>> of their scan of The third pyramid, the
man kar pyramid is
>> showing these vertical signatures below
the manra pyramid. Same thing here.
These are more of the vertical
signatures of these structures below the
ground.
>> Same thing here. Pyramid of menar.
There's this big signature here of a
possible vertical something below the
structure. Here is the model that they
presented at the end of the Malta
conference showing the entire Giza
plateau and these underground vertical
features connected into these cube
features the whole model here. So this
gets into the question of the water
level. Some of the the tubular
structures are under the sphinx as well
>> uh that you
>> measure. Yes, we have measured. I don't
know if we have the the slide here. Yes.
But the answer is yes.
>> So here on the left in the data
>> you said that when the image tapers off
a cut off of energy we discussed about
this.
>> Yeah. So I'm I'm just explaining to the
people.
>> So on the data here in these vertical
columns
>> where the data starts to taper off
>> is an indication of the water level.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. And that's reflected in the model
>> could be could be the indication of the
water level but is not the water level
is not
present abruptly.
Do this experiment.
Take a dry sponge. H dig a hole on the
dry sponge. So you have the dry sponge
and the hole on the dry sponge.
>> Okay. You put the the dry sponge here or
into a container and you put water.
You will see that the water goes into
the sponge
and for gravity the water will stabilize
somewhere. But the liar that uh uh
represents the dry part of the sponge
and the more wet part of the sponge is
not abrupt but you have
>> the transition right. Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
So the permeation of the water is not
linear.
>> Yeah. It's not
>> it depends on the absorption of the
material.
>> Abbrupt right. Okay.
>> Okay.
>> Yes.
>> So I don't know. I
that that is a strange effect that as we
discussed before
I can't give you an exact answer
>> that phenomena because I don't know
>> okay and that was my question
>> is the water level in the model and in
the data
>> is approximately a kilometer down
>> but it but this is not true because uh
the water level is uh there it is.
>> That's the next point. Yeah.
>> Is that the actual water level?
>> Yeah.
>> Below the water table of the Giza
plateau is shown to be approximately 50
m
>> 50 m
>> below the plateau. Not
>> is it is it 15 or 50?
>> So it's 15 m above sea level, 50 m below
the plateau.
>> Got it.
>> Right. So this is courtesy of ancient
architects. another individual in the
community who
>> basically debunked debunked the the
study.
>> He's a debunker. No,
>> he's a debunker. Yes. Yeah. So again, I
was just curious what was your
explanation for the difference of the
water level shown here.
>> The water level I I tell you you can
it's much higher.
>> You can see it from this tomography.
Yes.
>> This line
>> approximately approximately.
>> Okay. Okay. So it's not 15 m
>> you can see something related to the
water level.
>> Okay.
>> And it's not that but it's that one.
>> So the tapering of the image here is not
because of the water level. maybe
effectively if you have an effective
physical cut off of something and then
they continue with another kind of
structure.
>> So this is I think this is
>> no I if you ask me why is like that
>> you have to go and see effectively sure
>> the measurements are those
>> right? So so what you're saying is that
this is supposed to be a solid object.
>> Yes. going more than a kilometer down
and connecting into these large cubes.
>> However, the signature of this solid
object
>> does not
>> changes changes
>> changes significantly
>> significantly.
>> The explanation you had given in Malta
was because that the water level was
here
>> but we both agree that this is not the
water level that's causing the
>> maybe is is that is there.
>> Yeah. This blue line.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That one. So if this is a
solid object,
what is creating the lack of signature
here?
>> I don't know.
>> Is the is does the lack of signature
start a kilometer down or how many how
many meters down is that kind of cut off
where it starts to go from
>> approximately 600.
>> Okay. So you I guess then if I was you
why
>> maybe there is something that I was
but I can't disclose it now. There is
something I can't disclose it now.
>> Interesting.
>> Okay. Okay. But um is it is there a
reason you're saying 600 m but like why
did you say it goes a kilometer deep?
>> Yes. Look how nice it is.
>> Yeah.
>> You can see that cut off. I do see that
it maintains
>> you see the different different sensors
you see the same cutff.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But that's what I'm
wondering. Why why do why are we saying
a kilometer deep instead of 600 m deep?
>> I don't
>> Well, that was just my estimate. So So
it was his estimate.
>> Maybe I am I am saying something wrong.
>> Yeah.
>> The vertical uh numbers you can read it.
You can read it. So again here
>> so they're getting a cut off.
>> Yeah. So this is 600 m here.
>> So this is where the image itself and
whatever this is the signature of this
starts to cut off.
>> Okay.
>> Here but there it looks like it cuts off
less and does extend it depends on the
close to a kilometer.
>> It depends on the processing procedure
that we are doing. It depends.
>> Okay. hundreds of meters you would say
confidently but and then you don't know
what to attribute
>> no
>> to Jeffrey's point that sort of awkward
gradient you know
>> because now we are we agree together
that the water levels is high
>> sure
>> and and you have a cut off of of the
signal
>> yeah and all of all of these vertical
signatures
>> show a tapering of the signature
>> so that's that's an anomaly of these
vertical signatures that we don't have a
good explanation for. If this is a solid
object, why doesn't the signature
register all the way down? It's not,
we've agreed it's not a result of the
water table. There's there's something
else happening with the signature where
it's possibly no longer able to detect
that deep. Well, do do you have an
alternative hypothesis or
>> So, again, at this stage, I'm just
asking questions.
>> Yep. Maybe we are we are focusing the
attention on something that uh it is
normal to have that kind of result.
>> Do you see an attenuation of signal?
>> No no no only here.
>> Okay. Only here. So there is something
idiosyncrat unique here going on. Okay.
That's
>> Yeah. So we can see it here in this this
polarized tomographic image. This is
again the vertical signatures.
>> I will say the the polarized tomographic
image even the raw tomographic image
>> super nice. those look very tubular and
like you know
>> same thing here it has that same the
deeper the deeper it goes
>> even when you get that awkward kind of
gradient cut off like it still looks
like it's maintaining some sort of
structure
>> look the water we see
>> this
>> up at the top
>> yeah yeah got it okay so you Filipo
would you admit now that you were you
didn't know about exactly where the
water level was back then or Oh, okay.
>> We can we can make mistakes.
>> Sure. Sure. Probably is the water level.
>> But no, because the water level is now
>> it's Yeah.
>> Can I ask can I ask a dumb question
because a lot of this is prefaced on
this idea of these structures being
man-made and artificial. And so two
question.
>> Oh my god.
>> You don't know.
>> No, we don't know. We don't know.
>> We don't know. But they
>> at least a lot of the speculation around
them is around
>> my personal opinion they are man-made.
>> But if it's an artificial structure, how
would you build something that
penetrates that deeply into the water
table?
>> And you asked to me. Okay, you are
asking me this.
>> Yeah. Have you speculated about that? I
mean you have to have thought of it or
>> it is something that uh um I we I
discuss about this issue with Colorado.
>> Okay.
And uh we agree that uh it is something
that uh it is man-made. Okay. So
somebody built those things there. Mhm.
It can be that uh once the pyramids were
built so from the top
maybe they dig it hole they dig it on
the bottom but
it it they are not
simply holes. M
>> they are built. How can how can I say?
>> But if if they're 20 m in diameter and
they are going a kilometer deep
>> then I'm going with aliens.
>> Like how do how do we explain that?
That's pretty that feels harder to
explain than the construction of the
pyramids themselves which are really
hard to explain.
>> Yeah. But so that's the problem though
is that's where this disintegrates from
an academic
>> conversation regarding the actual data
to the leap of speculation into alien
constructions which is why the academic
community has outright rejected this
whole thing because there's no physical
way that these could possibly have been
built. Period. There's there's no way.
>> Yeah, but you you would say the same
thing about the pyramid.
>> We don't understand. No, I agree with
you there. We we still don't understand
the mechanisms of operation,
>> but it's also a completely different
conversation building something above
ground when we're talking about
>> how could you even excavate into the
bedrock to be able to build something.
It's the the the logistics of the
engineering. So, we were talking kind of
off camera
>> how the civilization that built the
pyramids and associated structures were
absolutely able to build components that
tap into the existing water level. The
Osiron is excavated from the bedrock and
constructed to tap directly into the
water table below the structure. The
configuration of the temple structure is
precisely designed so that it hits that
water table. Again, an independent
aquifer that's not connected to the Nile
River because the water level inside the
Osiron is the same as it was in the
original design. The island and the
reservoir surrounding the island. Same
thing with the Osiris shaft. They were
capable of building structures that go
down to the water level and tap into the
water level. Now we're talking about
going a kilometer below the water level
to excavate. The whole thing is filled
with water. If they are real, I I have a
difficult time accepting that there is
such a thing that is a man-made
structure that goes a kilometer deep.
However,
the Giza Plateau is the bottom of an
ocean from millions of years ago. The
Tethus Sea, are you familiar with the
formation of the Giza Plateau?
>> Right? It used to be the bottom of an
ocean millions of years ago. And there
is evidence of hydrothermal
mineral deposits on the Giza Plateau. So
hydrothermal vents are vertical
structures that can go kilometers deep
into the bedrock.
>> Whoa.
>> So we can talk about this here in just a
second. I just I want to walk through
one more piece of data. So we've talked
Can I ask one more question because it's
very related to the logistics of being
able to build something that goes
penetrates a kilometer deep. Um and this
is a this is a flint dibble point. Is it
too hot down there?
>> Ah yes remember.
>> Yes. we have to speak about this.
Um
it is very simple to give you an answer.
The first thing is
it is uh
normal that uh people could be there
maybe you can build. Yes. To build these
structures
people has to go down. Yes, that's true.
But there are a lot of methods to cool
down high temperature.
The first one is this.
The enormous quantity quantity of shafts
that are present on the surface of the
gizapto
that are filled with debris and one of
those I show I showed them in the
presentation. I don't know if you
extrapolate.
>> I have that in here too. And there are a
lot of shafts and the shafts
uh are um can have the function of
giving air, giving light and so cooling
the underground structures that are
below. So the answer is okay, we want to
build something like that. Yes. Let's
begin building this thing, this uh
mega mega mega structure here by digging
and building the the cooling shafts.
Okay, we start from the shafts. Then
once we are downstairs there, we
intercept maybe natural horizontal
cavities. Okay. And so we build and we
start to build
in some way they they they they did it
in some way somebody did these things.
So the vertical shafts that you find
principally uh between the the the
sphinx and the caf pyramid there are
three uh four or five uh um shafts that
are blocked by debris. and those
facilities we um uh we are thinking to
submit a proposal to the Egyptian
government because those shafts can be
the entrance of the underground facility
without doing any kind of drill. We
don't have to drill.
>> Yeah,
>> we we only have to clean.
>> Amazing.
>> We only have to clean enough.
>> Well, I I hope you get that approval. I
guess another question I would have is
are all of the tubular structures a
kilometer deep? The ones under the
sphinx as well, they all are hundreds of
meters deep.
>> I have the the the the
slide. Yes. Because had to uh transport
fresh air and light into uh the below uh
the the structures that are below.
>> Mhm.
>> Yes. and idelio
tag 47. Yes.
>> So this is this is the causeway here.
>> Yes.
>> Right. So we're talking about the Osiris
shaft being located on the causeway
>> and these bedrock vertical shafts are
adjacent to the causeway on both sides.
So there's some over here on this side
and some on the southern side that go
down vertically into the bedrock
>> to an unknown depth. They've never been
fully excavated. They were filled with
debris and sand. Now also trash
accumulation for, you know,
>> decades and all all sorts of stuff just
completely filled in with junk.
>> Yeah. All the tires there are of there
is there is rubbish. And
>> so there's ev there's evidence even just
looking down into these vertical pits.
There's evidence of transverse
horizontal shaft. So
>> we I detected.
>> Yeah. Yeah, they they they showed that.
So these shafts go down vertically into
the bedrock and then there's horizontal
transverse connecting shafts that link
these things.
>> So in in my opinion that's part of the
industrial infrastructure of the Giza
plateau. And I I have a slide on that
here in just a sec. So the other
pressing question, Filipo, I know you
know this was coming and this is kind of
the last question I have for you. Yeah.
So this is the data of the scan of the
Kafra pyramid and the big objection is
the fact that the known chambers are not
shown on the data.
>> So this is above the Belleone chamber
here and the known chambers should be
somewhere down here.
>> Yes. Uh
>> so this is this is the configuration of
the Kafra pyramid the known internal
chambers and all of these areas that are
marked with hash marks here are bedrock
excavated chambers. So they're carved
directly from the bedrock of the Giza
plateau.
And this was the statement. I don't know
if you wrote this or if Armando wrote
this, but so it states here that the
detection issues related to the known
structures inside the Kafra pyramid. The
satellite data only reveals the entrance
descending corridor and the roof. This
is because the structures are embedded
in a limestone slab that absorbs the
signal.
So this is the bedrock of the Giza
plateau from which these chambers are
excavated.
This is no deeper than 15 m into the
bedrock
and the radar signal is absorbed in that
limestone bedrock according to the quote
from your team. Again, I don't think I
think Ali Armando wrote this. I don't
know if you wrote this, but this was
published on the Facebook page. So, can
you clarify
why the signal is being absorbed in this
bedrock? And then how if it's absorbed
in 15 m of bedrock here, how can it
possibly scan any deeper?
>> Okay. Yes. Uh the the answer is this. uh
let's start from a from this matter of
fact we are not dedecting the Belony we
are not deducting the narrow corridors
uh uh yes the narrow corridors because
uh in that tomographic line that we are
using they are not present
>> okay so now we are dealing this problem
uh being aware that the Means sometimes
targets are not dedact.
Uh in this case uh we uh think that the
um exactly what that uh message was uh
we were we we wrote that message because
the most uh part of the vibrational
energy in that case were
um attenuated a lot the signal. So we
would not be able to uh retrive the
Belony chamber and also other um
corridors
uh because uh no energy we failed the uh
detection of those known uh chambers.
>> Okay. Okay. But then the next logical
question is if you're
>> if you're saying that the signal is
getting absorbed and attenuated because
of limestone that's just 15 m deep
>> then how you are detecting those
>> a kilome deep through the same
limestone.
>> Yes
it is a question of measurements in
those measurements we we were not able
to retrive those uh those structure.
Okay. But considering the particular
configuration of
those huge um tubes descending
approximately for more than 1 kilometers
having a diameter of approximately 20 m
we can we can uh we can see that uh I
think they are very big. Okay. So you
are comparing a very small object with
huge structures. So I I don't think that
this is a point of comparation, a good
comparation uh point because you are
comparing huge structures with something
very small.
So in this case the very small things
are not detected and that's a matter of
fact. You ask me why uh we gave that
explanation. Okay, because the big rock
we don't have the the the vibration. We
don't have the the the vibration but we
have the vibrations to detect the huge
structure and we have detected the
things uh very clear. Uh that's the
answer. It is obvious that this work we
we have to continue to do this work. So
we have to continue to scan the uh cafe
pyramid.
Uh and so I am sure that we will find uh
results that uh show us also the burden.
>> You got to bring
>> the grand sasso improved methodology.
>> Yes. and do it again. We need it. This
Fippo, this is critical
>> because again to say that the energy and
the micro vibrations are absorbed in
bedrock,
>> 15 m deep,
>> the deeper you go, the more bedrock
there is and the more bedrock there is
to prevent these vibrations from being
detected. So this is it's an it's a big
issue and this is the biggest objection
that's been proposed in the community
>> is this bedrock excavated chamber. There
is also another thing that I have to
explain you why there are things that
are very visible and things that are
difficult to be uh detected.
It is a question of measurements.
Sometimes things are invisible,
sometimes thing are very visible, are
very bright.
We found that if things are
anchored
on the surface of the earth,
>> anchored. So they start from the surface
like the pyramid like that. Like
>> we see it very very clear because the
Vanishment waves are very
um energetically
on the boundary.
So on the surface of the earth
>> in that case the shafts are directly
connected to the surface of the earth.
So why the vibrate the the surface
vibrates they we can detect the
vibrations in that case the bone is
something that is not directly
connected. I say it's there. Yes. So, we
need to scan it more, more and more.
>> Have you tried doing these scans on any
other limestone bedrock specifically?
>> We have the shafts,
>> the Osiris shaft.
>> Yeah. And the shafts, but also the
vertical.
>> How deep how deep are those?
>> So, we don't know how deep they go. He
shows that they're going down hundreds
of meters according to the scans. Yeah.
H and those are anchored on the surface
of the earth. So we can see it behind.
>> Yeah. So the the opening of the shaft is
actually on the surface.
>> So you can look down directly into the
shaft and see that it goes down into the
bedrock.
>> So that reminded me of a good point. So
another thing we need
>> is
>> control samples.
So for example, you provided really good
proof of concept in the scanning of the
tunnels and the physics laboratory.
Those are fantastic.
>> Another thing that we don't have in the
studies are control samples.
>> No, I have so for example,
>> I have I have mines.
>> No, no, no. So, so scan a structure just
like a hill where there is nothing
there.
>> Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. to show us a
control sample comparison.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. So that people can see. So this
hill,
>> we're going to scan the hill and show
what is inside of a hill where we know
there's nothing inside and we know
there's no big vertical. So this has
been another big criticism is that
there's no control sample comparison.
>> We will do it. Yes, we can do it.
>> So this is also important in a
scientific study. You always want to
have a control sample so that you can
compare the control sample to the test
sample.
>> Can I just ask what because this touches
on what you're asking. Yeah.
>> In the context these commercial contexts
where you're under NDA, you don't need
to talk about any of the specifics,
>> but I would just ask you how many
instances are there of these? because
it's not a perfect control like you know
Jeff is sort of describing here but it
is somewhat of a control where you're
looking for like minerals and other
things and we can kind of pattern match
like regular land versus these
megalithic archaeological sites.
>> Yeah.
>> So do you know like how how many times
have you done this roughly? It was if
>> you had to estimate just the method
>> the
>> scanning like on anything like it is it
between 100 and a thousand between a
th00and and 10,000
>> how how many sites
>> yeah how how many different sites yeah
that's a better question
>> not a lot about 10
>> about 10 okay got it
>> they are sufficient to to show things uh
where are present let's see let's say
mines
>> mhm
>> so tunnels inside than else.
>> Yeah.
>> And we're both assuming
>> things that are more controlled where
nothing is present.
>> And we're
>> so you have different.
>> Yeah. And we're assuming you've never
seen anything like this. Anything like
these column like 20 m, you know,
diameter
>> are present because you see signals that
are devastating. You you see those
columns. What are those? Are there other
times where they've missed structures
that are more suspended and not tied to
the foundational bedrock of the earth?
>> Are there other examples of that where
they miss?
>> Yes. Yes, I have it. I have I have those
kind of uh Yes,
>> it's it's exciting.
>> The experience that's that's if the if
these things are anchored on the surface
of the earth is better.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No,
>> it's even better. I mean, this is
exciting because it's it's uh
I uh you know, the way I net out is like
you have you got a lot of work to do,
you know, but I don't think I don't
think it anything's conclusive in either
direction. I think you got to just keep
going.
>> Yeah, that's that's kind of my my
conclusion.
>> So, uh all the question and thank you
for your question.
>> I care about this Filipo. This is
important.
>> I try to give the best answer.
>> Yeah. So in the position that I am now I
maybe I I am a bit tired because of the
jet leg.
>> No understandably is
>> and maybe uh this last uh issue this is
an issue that of the Belone I am
thinking always of the Belone.
>> Yes
>> we will solve it. We will solve it. So
uh it has to be um investigated.
>> Yeah
>> we solve also this issue. So the issue
is why we are not watching the Bony at
the moment what you read is the best
answer that we can give you.
>> Right.
>> Right. Yeah.
>> But we we I will ensure you I assure you
that more scans will be done on the caf
in order to find something to detect
Belone. Okay. So, I know you have a big
day tomorrow. Yeah.
>> And I'll wrap this up quickly just so we
can get through this and I know, you
know, we both traveled yesterday and
I'll just kind of cover this briefly.
So, we're talking about Lewis Alvarez.
>> Yep. I see that.
>> Just just uh uh one thing about the the
vertical shafts.
>> Yes.
>> The vertical shafts are very important.
I don't know why nobody went there to
esavate to esavate to clean. I'm sorry.
>> The bedrock shafts. Yeah.
>> Why? There there's so there's also
>> no good archaeological explanation for
what those shafts are for
>> from from the feronic burial
perspective.
>> Archaeology and Egyptology does not have
a good explanation for those vertical
bedrock shafts adjacent to the causeway.
Some of some of them are burials
>> where they've found smaller ones and
they found bodies
>> down inside of these because
>> there have been a plethora of burials
discovered on the Giza Plateau,
>> not in the pyramids, but in structures
adjacent to the pyramid structures. So
they have found intrusive burials in
some of these shafts, but there's not a
good consensus for why these things are
there.
>> So they've never made it after the the
original construction.
>> Sure. That's another question is which
came first? Yeah.
>> And are those bedrock shafts an original
part or are they part of the dynastic
era construction? So that's always a a
problem when looking at the layers of
building and construction in Egypt.
>> You observed from the internal those
shafts and you I'm I think that you
believe me that are made with
>> uh squared um constructions one on each
other
like that that goes down
>> going down into the bedrock. Yes. And I
tell you that for me the shafts are
waterproof.
It means that the water that is the
water level if you if you um if you can
see the water level that is outside the
shafts the water is not able to go
inside the shafts.
>> Yeah.
>> So if we clean the shafts we always find
air not water. Also we've go below a
lot. Okay. I don't know if you are if
you agree with my idea.
>> Yes. Because that also fits with my
hypothesis on the function of those
systems.
>> Yes.
>> So that's that would get us into another
hourong discussion on so you and I
should you and I should sit down and
talk about the function of everything
sometime. And so the project proposal
that we are
submitting, we are thinking to submit
these weeks
we are involving University of Ferrara.
We are involving uh um other academic um
organizations. Yeah,
>> I am out of this project because it's
better that I I will remain out. And we
our intention is to use robots,
>> not humans because it's dangerous to go
to go there.
>> Yeah.
>> To use robots and clean the shops.
>> I don't know.
>> They should do that anyway because of
all the trash.
>> Yes. Let's say uh we can go below one to
5 m a day. Okay.
>> Yeah. We just begin to work and every
day we go.
>> Yeah. Absolutely. So that so this next
thing I I mentioned that there was a
muon scanning of the central pyramid.
Lewis Alvarez, I knew I recognized the
name. So he was a part of this. They
scanned the Belleone chamber and the
area above the Belleone chamber. They
didn't find anything. Mhm.
>> So they scanned approximately 19% of the
total volume in an area here that was a
cone half angle of 35° from the
vertical. So it's this cone that they
scanned above the Belleone chamber.
>> And they didn't find anything.
>> Mhm.
>> These are also supposedly located
directly above the Belleone chamber. And
we've already kind of had a back and
forth discussion about
>> which is the most viable detection
method. Muon scanning or S scanning.
Muon scanning says there's nothing. S is
now detecting something.
>> So again, we don't have to get into a
labor discussion about, you know, who's
right and who's wrong.
>> No, it's better that they work together.
Maybe in this case, Mo, the old version
of Mo because that's a paper
>> from the 70s. Yes,
>> the 70s.
Maybe in that and I am not criticizing
Mu because they are fantastic.
Erh maybe in that time they are
detecting nothing on on a 35% of
aperture.
>> Correct.
>> Do you have an explanation though for
why they didn't detect anything above
the Bon chamber and you
tell you why? Because the as now we know
that the more scanning uh are detecting
things that is the sum of everything you
are watching on the top is the sum like
that. And so uh it is it is it is
difficult for me to to see things
facilities when you are watching the sum
of everything you saw
uh 50 years later that paper. So now the
modern the modern moon detectors
they are it is highly probability that
they are saying that there is a big void
on the grand gallery which is parallel
but in my personal opinion are watching
the top and the bottom and the roof the
roof and the and the the floor of the
big gall of the grand gallery. Yeah like
that like that. Look, they're watching
this and that. It means that the
technique fails sometimes
and
it failed. Maybe it failed also uh 50
years ago at in the in the period of
when that paper was uh was written using
old detectors.
Who knows there is something that
happened and they are detecting nothing.
>> Yeah. And I don't know that any recent
Muan scanning has been done inside the
central pyramid.
>> So they need to go back and do it again.
>> Yeah. They they has to they have to do
it again. Why do why do they they they
they do they why
>> they didn't install detectors inside the
Bone.
>> Right. Right.
>> No.
>> Yeah.
>> It's a good question. So, so just kind
of a final note that was that was the
end of my questions for the S project
and Filippo I think you did a really
really good job today.
>> Thank you
>> in answering to the best of your ability
>> that I could
>> absolutely yeah
>> sure agreed.
>> So the the final note here is just a
mention of these hydrothermal veins
>> and iron ore deposits. So here I'm
standing in the middle
>> this photo. Look how nice it is. Yeah,
that there you can you can find the
floor of the of the Jiza plateau where
the pyramids are on.
>> Yes.
>> So this is bedrock here.
>> This is limestone paving.
>> This this part here
>> is man-made.
>> It's made.
>> This part here,
>> this is bedrock. limestone bedrock
that's permeated with iron ore deposits,
metal or minerals, which is directly
applicable to the utilization of your
technology for finding metal or mineral
deposits. So, this is this is where
these two things have a synergy that I
think we need to look at further.
>> So, here I'm down inside of one of these
quote unquote boat pits.
>> And this is an image.
>> It's a tube. A tube. A metal tube.
>> Metal tube. Correct. It's an iron
>> I saw it. It's a metal tube.
>> It's an iron ore vein. Yeah. So, these
are You've never seen this before.
>> That's wild.
>> So, this is about a foot and a half long
>> and a foot deep and it's a tube of iron
ore.
>> Cool.
>> And these veins run all through the Giza
Plateau.
>> Wa.
>> They are hydrothermal metal or mineral
deposits that are embedded in the
limestone bedrock of the Giza Plateau.
Whoa.
>> So, these are the result of hydrothermal
vent systems,
>> sealoor hydrothermal vents that push
these metal minerals up from the earth
and then they deposit them on the
surface and inside the layers of the
bedrock. That's how these things form.
So here in red I have depicted these
vertical bedrock shafts adjacent to the
causeway and the interconnecting
transverse shaft. So you can actually
look down in this,
>> you know, about 20 m down and you can
see the transverse connecting shafts
that aren't that deep.
>> Mhm. Here we have what Filippo's team is
showing, which could be the remnants of
some of these hydrothermal mineral
vents, these hydrothermal vents coming
out from the bedrock with the magma
chamber. So again, there's magma down
here, which could be these cubic type
formations,
>> huge geological formations that are
known to go down kilometers into the
bedrock.
>> Very interesting. What do you think
about that theory?
>> It it is a theory. I accept it
absolutely like I accept very well the
theory of Christopher Dan and the theory
of Joffrey. Yeah,
>> we we I am
we have to collaborate all
and see effectively what there is and
which is the effective purpose of the
Jes.
>> Exactly. It it can be not only mine or
yours or also the sum of course multiple
purposes. Sure. No.
>> Yeah.
>> Something like that.
>> And I think that understanding the
impetus for choosing Giza.
>> Yeah.
>> Is critical in understanding the overall
function of the Giza plateau because we
have hydrothermal vents. We have metal
or mineral deposits. And in this paper,
they've also shown that there is a karst
cave and tunnel system
>> that is the source of hydrogen sulfide
gas coming up from the Giza plateau. So
there's caves and tunnels
>> all throughout the Giza plateau natural
that you can also see produce these
vertical features located directly below
the Giza plateau. And my hypothesis for
the function of the great pyramid is
that the hydrogen sulfide gas coming
from this subterranean karst caven
tunnel system is the initial reactant in
the chemical manufacturing sequence
within the great pyramid.
>> So they picked the Giza plateau
specifically because of all of these
features in the bedrock, the metal, the
hydrothermal vents, all of it works in
conjunction with the system above
ground. Yeah.
>> So there is absolutely something below
the Giza plateau located directly below
the pyramids.
>> What would you do with the hydrogen
sulfide?
>> Convert it into sulfuric acid.
>> And what would you do with the sulfuric
acid?
>> Sulfuric acid can be used for fertilizer
applications but also specifically for
mining and metallergy.
>> Got it.
>> Because we have a huge supply of metal
ore directly on the Giza plateau.
>> So So agriculture and mining and metal
energy. Interesting.
>> Gold mining.
So the samples of the iron ore deposits
on the Giza plateau also contain gold,
silver, electrum, precious metals, rare
earth elements, everything that you
could think of. We'll we'll talk about
it.
>> Love it.
>> I have all the sample analysis data.
>> This is the perfect cliffhanger to end
on.
>> And also there is also electricity
inside this.
>> So in in the veins
has his uh
>> fulgarites
>> fossilized lightning. Okay.
>> In these iron ore veins, we have samples
that contain fulgarites, which is
evidence of high voltage electric
current distribution through these iron
veins.
>> We'll get into it tomorrow.
>> Oh, wow. Okay. Well, what a cliff.
>> I think we have to do another
>> Yeah, we we do. Seriously. No, but this
has been uh amazing. Jeffrey, really
appreciate your questions. you uh asked
just really detailed first principles
questions but that were very respectful
and I think this was just this beautiful
exploration and Filippo uh you know I
can't say enough about how just open you
are to fielding these sorts of questions
a lot of people get very precious about
their theories and they don't let them
be questioned and you
>> thank you for these uh these questions
that
>> you're clearly not that you're clearly
open to updating your own hypothesis
beliefs And I think we have a lot of
action items here. I think maybe the the
the biggest one is getting those thinly
sliced, you know, what you did with the
Grand Sasso, but for, you know, the
structures underneath the copper
pyramid. But this was amazing and I
appreciate you both.
>> Thank you.
>> All right.
>> Awesome.
Woo!